--- Page 1 ---
SAGA EDITION CORE RULEBOOK

= aes



--- Page 2 ---
SAGA EDITION

REVISED CORE RULEBOOK

CHRISTOPHER PERKINS, OWEN K.C. STEPHENS, RODNEY THOMPSON


--- Page 3 ---
AUVSUSAINNY wOS SUM UVAS | [s1ieses7

CREBITS

| ORIGINAL STAR WARS®

ROLEPLAYING GAME
DESIGNERS

SAGA EDITION DESIGNERS

DEVELOPER AND EDITOR

LUCAS LICENSING EDITORS

!
HI

"DESIGN MANAGER AND
MANAGING EDITOR

DIRECTOR OF RPG R&D

| PRODUCTION MANAGERS

IMAGING TECHNICIANS

Bill Slavicsek, Andy Collins, JD Wiker

Christopher Perkins, Owen K.C. Stephens,
Rodney Thompson

Gary M. Sarli

Sue Rostoni, Jonathan Rinzler

Christopher Perkins

Bill Slavicsek

Josh Fischer, Randall Crews

Travis Adams, Bob Jordan

SAGA EDITION ART DIRECTOR Paul Hebron

COVER DESIGNER

Scott Okumura

GRAPHIC DESIGNERS

DIAGRAM PHOTOGRAPHY Jay Sakamoto

ARCHIVIST Bryn Jennings

GRAPHIC PRODUCTION

Angelika Lokotz
SPECIALIST

Daniel Falconer, Langdon Foss, 4G Squared,
Daniel Gelon, D. Alexander Gregory, Matt Hatton,
Raven Mimura, Vinod Rams, Ramon Perez,
Andrew Robinson, Marc Sasso, Greg Staples,
Mark Tedin, Chris Trevas, Lucasfilm Ltd.

Joseph Al-Khazraji, lan Allen, Michael Beeler, Newell
Curlee, James Hamilton, Doug Hyatt, Lj Stephens,

Brett Thompson, Clay Venable, Shay Wells

Leland Chee, Andy Collins, Jonathan Gibbons,
Rob Heinsoo, Scott Sarli, Mark Valetutto,

Jeff Waddill, Rob Watkins, James Wyatt

INTERIOR ARTISTS

|

Some rules mechanics are based on the Star Wars Roleplaying Game Revised Core Rulebook by Bill Slavicsek, Andy Collins, and JD Wiker, the original DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® rules created by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson, and the new DUNGEONS & DRAGONS game designed
by Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip Williams, Richard Baker, and Peter Adkison.

This Wizards of the Coast game product contains no Open Game Content. No portion of this work may be reproduced in any form without written permission. To learn more about the Open Gaming License and the d20 System License, please visit www.wizards.com/d20,

U.S,, CANADA, ASIA, GREAT BRITAIN

PACIFIC, & LATIN AMERICA HASBRO UK LTD

WIZARDS OF THE COAST, INC. CASWELL WAY

P.0. BOX 707 NEWPORT, GWENT NP9 OYH
RENTON, WA 98057-0707 GREAT BRITAIN

QUESTIONS? 1-800-324-6496

PLEASE KEEP THIS ADDRESS FOR YOUR RECORDS

EUROPE

WIZARDS OF THE COAST, BELGIUM

‘T HOFVELD 6D

1702 GROOT-BIIGAARDEN
BELGIUM

+32 2 467 3360

= System
{®)

WWW.WIZARDS.COM WWW.STARWARS.COM

ISBN: 978-0-7869-4356-2
620-10796720-001-EN
987654321

FIRST PRINTING: MAY 2007

©2007 LUCASFILM LTD, & @ OR ™ WHERE INDICATED. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
USED UNDER AUTHORIZATION.

DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, 020 SYSTEM, Wizards of the Coast, and their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A, and other countries, This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized
use of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. This product is a work of fiction. Any similarity to actual people, organizations, places, or events is purely coincidental. Printed in the U.S.A.


--- Page 4 ---
CONTENTS Class Descriptions............ 37 EXplOSIVES: onc sceravgausnas 130 |{ CHAPTER: @aALacTic
JOU siisss eccromemamaensnas 38 BOE csi arerera narterecery ecoremsers 131 GAZETTEER....226

FOREWORD......... Noble ........ cece eee eee ee 42 EQUIDMENE: «snxemsemouenes 133 Life in the Galaxy ........... 227

ScOUNGIl .csces ccm esennemad 45 Services and Expenses ....... 140 Planets of the Galaxy........ 228
(C01) | ee 48 ENCuMbPANCO sins ss ssnaaae aes 140 Travel in the Galaxy.......... 237
This Is Star Wars ..........006 7 Soldier. ...... 2... ceseee eee ee 50
This Is a Roleplaying Game...... 7 Multiclass Characters......... 54 CHAPTERS: COMBAT .... 142 CHAPTER 4: GG AMe-
This Is the Star Wars Combat Sequence........... 143 MASTERING.....238
Roleplaying Game.......... 7 CHAPTER4: SSeCILLS 1.1... 56 Combat Statistics ........... 144 The Role of the Gamemaster . .239
CHANACI ES tase «5 acon x wae x 8 Skills Summary ........000005 57 IATHALING 2 uesises ¢ onan s 2 owe 149 Running a Game Session ..... 242
What You Need to Play......... 8 How Do Skills Work?.......... 58 SUPBNISE + o savers § Feast SA Here 149 Building an Encounter........ 247
Dien & eccnuna #5 5 amine & 5 abIRE Ss 8 Types of Skill Checks.......... 58 Types of Actions............. 150 Awarding
The Three Eras of Play.......... 8 Trying Again.............0008 58 Special Combat Rules........ 155 Experience Points........ 248
The Basicsisis ss x unsssiis ss wemmams o Favorable and Unfavorable Other Rewards.............. 248
oa sm eh SEE 3 Circumstances............59 ||__CHAPTER 10: VEHICLES .. 164 Building an Adventure .......249
0 s = eases vee anaeawe Time and Skill Checks.........60 Scale... 66sec eee ee eee eee GE Building a Campaign.........251
tenons Checks without Rolls..........60 Vehicle Types... seen ese 166 Hazards............0ee000+.252
Combining Skill Attempts...... 61 Vehicle Combat Statistics. ....167 Gravity ......cccceeeeeeeees 256
Ability Checks .............5. 61 Characters in Vehicles. ....... 169 Visibility. .... 20. .0e ccc ee eee 257 aL
Buti anneenn eae Skill Descriptions. ............61 Starting the Battle ..........169 _ 2
puter ta Vehicle Combat Actions......170 || CHAPTER: BRAS 4s
snarecezsaa CHAPTERS: FPeatTS.......78 Special Vehicle OF PAY Uy. 208 {a
Acquiring Feats...........-.. 79 Combat Rules............ 173 The Rise of the Empire Era... .259 a
trees PHEFEQUISIECS. csc vasscas saved SD Vehicle Descriptions .........174 The Rebellion Era............260 i |e
Choosing a Species........... Feat Descriptions............. 79 The New Jedi Order Era....... 261
Species Characteristics........ 22 CHAPTER Ti: DROIDS .... 184 Main Characters ..........-. 261
HUMANS: escsinais s srsnae.e 2 vases 23 CHAPIER6: THE Force. .90 A Droid's Life............... 185 Supporting Characters....... 266 g
Bothans ..............-0 208s 23 The Force through the Ages... .91 Creating a Droid Hero........ 185
CORDS, finesse pneene yo reeme 24 Using the Force............4. 92 Droid Traits.............0005 187 |{ CHAPTER IG: ALUieSs AND j yA
DUROE « . cesta so essen & & a seme! 25 Foree Points sis se canaas x nese 92 Droid Systems .............. 188 OPPONENTS.... 272 g
EWOKS) « syee.a 7b eam 2 2 seek 25 The Dark Side...........0.008 93 Modifying Droids............ 197 B@aStS. cs a scone a « ¢ awn a a 6 arene 273 S
Gamorreans..............08. 26 Force POwersisais ss seuss s+ wan 95 Sample Droids.............. 197 Beast Descriptions........... 275 BD}
GUNDANS siascreemensremmas 26 Force Power Descriptions Nonheroic Characters........ 277 0)
FTOH ENS xseine wn avcieumea 5 meueenia 27 Foree Talents sic s senses a sacs CHAPTER: PRESTIGE Character Archetypes........ 278 5
RED GF cncsaed cnneoua weawewe 28 Force Techniques............ CLASSES Other SheCles,.. «casas swe 284
Mon Calamari ............005 28 Force S€Crétsas soxanzas savin 103 Prestige Classes..........+5. 205 i
Quarren ........ cc cece eee es 29 Force-Using Traditions....... 103 ACE PIlOt. oe c eee ee ees 206 || INDEX... 2... ses e ns 286 >
Rodians......cecceceveucece 29 Bounty Huntetiss.evesces eens 207 a”
Sullustans.......seecceeeeees 30 CHAPIER7: HHEROIC . Crime Lord............000- 209 CHARACTER @
Trandoshans.......csceeeeues 31 TERAITS. cetiece ss 108 Elite TOODE 0. 2eenissaee nace 211 SHEET 6... 4 287 <
Twilleks.....cccccuceeucceucs 31 DRED S. cccger sca sescssncrowsnreruzracei 109 FORO GAGE DE .a:scsvins sid atenssorm areca 212
Wookiees .......ccceceevece 32 DesthiViewressmunvnesaaneces 112 Force DIsclplesis + <sieissesoy 214 a
Zabrak.....ccccccucuveuceuce 32 Gunslinger ............0 eee 216 Z
Jedi Knight...........000004 217 Q
CHAPTER: ME ROIC MONEY... 6s. 0s ese eeanwre een 117 Jedi Master...........000008 219
CLASSES...... Restricted Items ..........4. 118 Officer .......0. ccc eee e eens 220
Choosing a Heroic Class....... WEAPONS. ..coas se ecerse eee 119 Sith Apprentice...........4. 222
Class and Level Bonuses....... 36 Melee Weapons...........+. 120 Sith Lord. .......0..cceee ees 224
Level-Dependent Benefits ..... 36 Ranged Weapons............ 124


--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
SSS

Welcome to the latest edition of the Star Wars Roleplaying Game. Whether you're an experienced player or
new to the game, you're in for a real treat.

Why the new edition? First and foremost, we wanted the “definitive” core rulebook to encompass all six
feature films—something that wasn't possible until after the release of Episode III: Revenge of the Sith in 2005.
Secondly, Wizards of the Coast had stepped away from the roleplaying game for a few years to focus on the Star
_ Wars Miniatures Game. After the successful launch of the miniatures line, we knew that we wanted a roleplaying

game rulebook that embraced our pre-painted plastic miniatures—over 500 of them and counting. And what
a great opportunity to give Star Wars Miniatures Game players another way in which to use their miniatures!
Lastly, we wanted to make good on a promise to treat this game as a living document shaped by fan feedback
and the latest breakthroughs in game design. Like the Star Wars saga itself, the game evolves.

So, here it is: the first roleplaying game rulebook to span the complete Star Wars film saga. What else could
we call it but the Saga Edition?

This rulebook doesn't change how roleplaying games are played: You still need those wacky dice, your
imagination, a love for all things Star Wars, and a few good friends. However, it boldly reinvents the game by
allowing players to customize their characters in ways never before possible. Characters gain access to more
feats as well as new suites of talents. Every level gained promises something new and exciting. We've even
taken a few pointers from the miniatures game and streamlined the combat rules. We've also simplified the
skill system and devised Force rules that feel more elegant and true to the Star Wars milieu.

The book incorporates Episode Ill content (of course!) as well as a few surprises. Like its predecessors, the
Saga Edition rulebook promises new adventures in the Star Wars galaxy and delivers a rules system that doesn't
apologize for breaking new ground.

Believe it or not, it's been thirty years since George Lucas gave us his first film in the Star Wars saga. | was
9 years old when the movie premiered on May 25, 1977. Truth be told, | was the boy on my block with the Star
Wars posters tacked to his bedroom walls, shelves lined with Star Wars action figures, and yes, Star Wars bed
sheets. Many of the "dry years" between Episode VI and Episode | were spent playing electronic games such
as X-Wing, TIE Fighter, and Dark Forces. Somewhere along the way, | became an adult, and shortly before the
release of The Phantom Menace, | rekindled my passion for Star Wars and unleashed my inner child by becoming
the editor-in-chief of Star Wars Gamer magazine. In this role, | was able to meet the people behind the Star
Wars legacy, even work with them. | visited Skywalker Ranch, read film scripts stamped “confidential,” attended
conventions, followed Peter Mayhew around like a happy little dog, and enjoyed frequent behind-the-scenes
glimpses of filmmaking magic. It stuns me to think of how much Star Wars has remained a part of my life in
spite of all of the things that can occupy one's time.

Thirty years—what a cause for celebration! Perhaps for this reason alone, the time seemed right to revisit
this great game, make it better, and give it a facelift. I'm as proud of this book as anything I've worked on, and
I've been doing game design since | was seventeen. As a follow-up, Wizards of the Coast plans to unveil more
products in its new line of roleplaying game supplements and accessories. | hope you're as excited by them as
| am. More importantly, | hope this book fills many of your evenings and weekends with adventure, laughter,
and fond memories of a galaxy far, far away.

Chin aeny

Christopher Perkins
January 7, 2007

oeomMsdod

AUVSUSAINNY wOS SYYM UVAS



--- Page 7 ---


--- Page 8 ---
The Star Wars films depict an amazing galaxy of strange aliens, wondrous
~ machinery, mystical powers, epic struggles, great heroes, and terrible villains.
m the moment the first Star Destroyer blazed across the screen, the story
Star Wars captivated the world. With this game, you can re-create the
ory of the films or craft your own adventures in the Star Wars universe. All

aa Star Wars is space fantasy at its best, full of action, adventure, and a
"sense of wonder. The heroes are larger than life. The villains are utterly evil.
The universe has a lived-in, well-used look and feel to it. It's a familiar story,
but it's never been told quite this way before. It has mythic elements that
speak to the heart of the audience. It's epic in scope; everything appears
on a grand scale. And it's fun. Vehicles move very fast. Things blow up. We
want to cheer for the good guys and boo the bad guys. And, sometimes, we
want to be a part of that faraway galaxy.

THIS IS A
ROLEPLAYING GAME

It's a game of your imagination, where you get to tell stories by taking on
roles of the main characters—characters you create. It's a game that offers a
multitude of choices to those characters—more choices than even the most
sophisticated computer game, because the only limit to what you can do
is what you can imagine. The story is like a movie, except all of the action
takes place in your imagination. There's no script to the movie (other than
a rough outline used by the Gamemaster); you decide what your character

deciding what the story is about and taking on the roles of all the other
characters—the villains, the extras, the special guest stars. The Gamemas-
ter also keeps track of the rules, interprets the outcome of actions, and
describes what happens. Together, players and Gamemaster create a story,
and everybody has a great time.

THis IS THE
STAR WARS
ROLEPLAYING GAME

Combine the fabulous elements of the Star Wars universe with the imagi-
nation-powered engine of a roleplaying game, and the faraway galaxy
draws nearer. Everything you need is in this book except the dice. Check
out The Basics, starting on page 9, to get an idea of the fundamentals of
the game.

says and does. The Gamemaster is the director and special effects designer, «

NOIMLONGOMLNI



--- Page 9 ---
}

i

NOLIN Lmi

ABVSHSAINAY wOS SHYM BZLS

When you're ready, flip through the rest of this book. It offers a wealth
of options, allowing you to play in any Star Wars era. It lets you play the
good guys, the bad guys, or the guys in between if you want to add a little
ambiguity to an otherwise black-and-white universe.

When you play the Star Wars Roleplaying Game, you create a unique
fictional character that lives in the imaginations of you and your friends.
One person in the game, the Gamemaster (GM), controls the villains and
other people who live in the Star Wars universe. Through your characters,
you and your friends face the dangers and explore the mysteries that your
Gamemaster sets before you.

Anything is possible in the Star Wars Roleplaying Game. You can have your
character try anything you can think of. If it sounds good and the dice fall in
your favor, the action succeeds. The Basics section has more details.

Now, get ready. It's a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away. And the
Force is with you. Enjoy!

CHARACTERS

Your characters are the stars of the movie, the main characters in the game.
We sometimes refer to them as “heroes,” not in the “good guy” sense per
se, but in the sense of the main protagonists of the story. Each character's
imaginary life is different. Your character might be...

A tough blaster-for-hire.

A Padawan learner seeking to gain power in the Force.
A brash starfighter pilot.

A gambler looking to make the next big score.

A grizzled spacer making a living on the space lanes.
A smuggler with a heart of gold.

A young senator from a prosperous world.

A Rebel spy.

A Jedi Knight wielding a lightsaber in defense of the Republic. /
A galactic scout exploring the hyperspace lanes.

A soldier trained for war in the Outer Rim.

Or any other kind of character you can imagine.

WHAT YOU NEED
TO PLAY

Here's what you need to start playing the Star Wars Roleplaying Game:

This book, which tells you how to create and play your character.

A copy of the character sheet (on page 287)

A pencil and scratch paper.

One or two four-sided dice (d4), four or more six-sided dice (d6), an
eight-sided die (d8), two ten-sided dice (d10), a twelve-sided die (d12),
and a twenty-sided die (d20).

¢ A miniature from the Star Wars Miniatures Game line to represent your
character.
e A battle map with 1-inch squares to put your miniature on.

Players should read the front sections of this book, the parts dealing with
character creation, skills, feats, and equipment. The rest of the book is for the
Gamemaster, providing advice for running the game, opponents to throw at
the players’ characters, and a few starting points for adventures.

Dice
The rules abbreviate dice rolls with phrases such as "4d6+2," which means
“four six-sided dice plus 2" (generating a number between 6 and 26). The first
number tells you how many dice to roll (all of which are added together), the
number after the "d" tells you what type of dice to use, and any number after
that indicates a quantity that is added to or subtracted from the result.

Some examples:

3d6: Three six-sided dice, generating a number from 3 to 18. This is the
amount of damage that a blaster pistol deals.

2d8: Two eight-sided dice, generating a number from 2 to 16. This is the
amount of damage that a lightsaber deals in the hands of a 1st-level Jedi.

THE THREE ERAS
OF PLAY

The Star Wars Roleplaying Game supports adventures and campaigns set in
many different eras, three of which are described in detail in this book. You
can set your campaign in the time of the prequel movies (Episodes I-III).
Known as the Rise of the Empire era, this is a period when the Republic's
power is waning, war grips the galaxy, and the Jedi Council still holds sway
over ten thousand Jedi Knights. This time period pre-dates the Empire but
includes the tumultuous Clone Wars.

Or, you can go forward in time to the classic period of galactic civil war
and play in the Rebellion era, when the power of the Empire is supreme and
those capable of using the Force are few and far between. This is the time
described in the original Star Wars films (Episodes IV-VI).

Or, jump to a time twenty years after the Battle of Endor and participate
in the events surrounding the invasion of the galaxy. Aliens from beyond
the edge of known space have begun an incursion into the New Republic as
forces conspire to threaten the hard-won peace in the era of The New Jedi
Order (as described in the Del Rey Books novel series).

In addition, the rules in this book can be used to support campaigns set in
other eras. For example, in the distant past the Jedi and Sith warred for the
fate of the galaxy, as described in Dark Horse Comics’ Tales of the Jedi and
Knights of the Old Republic series, as well as the Knights of the Old Republic
video game series. Alternately, you may choose to set your game in the Legacy
era, as popularized in Dark Horse Comics’ Legacy series: Forty years after


--- Page 10 ---
The New Jedi Order era, the Empire has once again risen to power and the
Sith have regained control of the galaxy. Although these time periods are
not explicitly covered in this book, the rules herein can be used as a basis
for play in these eras.

THE BASICS

A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away...

With this compelling phrase, every Star Wars film thunders onto the
screen. These epic movies enthrall us with a mix of space fantasy, high
adventure, and mythology. We thrill to the adventures of Luke Skywalker and
Han Solo, Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker and Padmé
Amidala. We imagine ourselves piloting X-wing starfighters down the Death
Star trench or engaging in fight-to-the-death lightsaber duels with Darth
Maul, Count Dooku, or General Grievous.

With the Star Wars Roleplaying Game, you can experience this epic saga
in a whole new way. Imagine yourself as a Jedi in training or a Republic
Senator, a brave starfighter pilot or a powerful Wookiee. Whether you want
to be a player or the Gamemaster, this book is your portal to the action-
packed Star Wars galaxy.

THE CORE MECHANIC

The Star Wars Roleplaying Game uses a core mechanic to resolve all actions.
This central game rule keeps play fast and intuitive. Whenever you want to
attempt an action that has some chance of failure, you roll a twenty-sided
die (or "d20"). To determine whether your character succeeds at a task (such
as an attack or the use of a skill), you do this:

* Rolla d20.
® Add any relevant modifiers.
© Compare the result to a target number.

If the result equals or exceeds the target number (set by the GM or given
in the rules), your character succeeds at the task at hand. If the result is
lower than the target number, you fail.

THE GAMEMASTER

When you play the Star Wars Roleplaying Game, you're participating in an
interactive story. Players take on the roles of unique characters, called heroes.
One player serves as the Gamemaster, a combination director, narrator, and
referee. The GM describes situations, asks the players what their characters
want to do, and resolves these actions according to the rules of the game.
The GM sets each scene, keeps the story moving, and takes on the roles of
the opponents and other characters that the players’ heroes encounter in
each adventure. If you're the GM, you should read through all sections of
this book; you don’t need to memorize it, but you do need to have an idea
of where to find things once play begins.

HEROES

If you're a player, you take the role of a hero—one of the “stars” of the Star
Wars saga that you, the other players, and the GM all help to develop. You
create your character with the help of the game rules that follow, according
to your own vision for the type of hero you want to play. As your character
participates in adventures, he or she gains experience points (XP) that help
him or her improve and become more powerful.

For more information on character creation, see page 13.

GAME PLAY

This overview gives you enough of the basics to get a feel for how this
roleplaying game works. The chapters that follow take these basic concepts
and expand upon them.

Important! You don't have to memorize the contents of this book to play
the game. It's a game, not homework. Once you understand the basics, start
playing! Use this book as a reference during play. The table of contents and
index should help you find a specific topic easily. When in doubt, stick to the
basics, keep playing, and have fun. You can always look up an obscure rule
after your game session ends, but remember that you don't have to sweat
the details in the middle of play.

ROLLING DICE

We've already explained the basic rule that forms the foundation of the
game-—roll a d20, add a modifier, and try to get a result that's equal to or
greater than the target number. Whenever your character tries to accomplish
something significant, the GM asks you to roll a d20.

Important! Not every action requires a die roll, Roll dice in combat and
other dramatic situations when the success of an action is in doubt.

The d20 is used to determine results in combat and when making skill
checks and ability checks. In other words, the d20 determines whether or
not you succeed at an action.

The other dice (d4, d6, d8, d10, and d12) are used to determine what
happens after you succeed. Usually, the other dice come into play after
making a successful attack roll to determine how much damage the attack
deals to the target.

A GAME SESSION
In the Star Wars Roleplaying Game, the Gamemaster and players get together
to tell a story through the play of the game. We call these group-created
stories "adventures." A Star Wars adventure features plenty of action, lots
of opportunities for combat, cool villains, epic plots, and a sense of wonder
and grandeur.

Typically, the game consists of adventures that resemble episodes in the
movie saga. One adventure might play out in a single game session; another
might stretch across several evenings of play. A session can last as long as

}
}

NOMLONGOGLNI

AMVSUAAINNY ~wOS SUM BLS


--- Page 11 ---
)

Nol onGoeaNy

ANVSHUSEAINANY wOS SHYM BVLS

you're comfortable playing, from as short as one hour to as long as a 12-
hour marathon. Most groups get together and play for two to four hours at
a time. The game can be stopped at any time and restarted when the players
get back together.

Each adventure consists of interrelated scenes. A scene might feature
some kind of challenge or roleplaying encounter, or it could revolve around
combat. When there's no combat going on, play is much more casual. The
GM describes the scene and asks the players what their characters do. When
combat breaks out, game play becomes more structured, and the action
takes place in rounds.

WHAT CHARACTERS CAN DO

A character can try to do anything you can imagine, just so long as it fits
the scene the GM describes. Depending on the situation, your character
might want to:

Listen at a door

Use a computer terminal

Explore a location

Converse with an alien

Bargain with a merchant

Intimidate a thug

Talk to an ally

Pilot a vehicle

Search for a clue

Bluff an official

Repair an item

Swing across a repulsorlift shaft

Move

Duck behind a bulkhead

Attack an opponent

Characters accomplish these things by making skill checks, ability checks,
or attack rolls, all of which entail a modified d20 roll.

WHAT'S NExT?

If you're new to roleplaying games, you might be wondering how to proceed.
After you've read over these basics to get an understanding of the game,
check out The First Game Session (see below). This example of play provides
some insight into how a roleplaying game session plays out. Then review the
first few chapters of the book. When you're ready, use the Character Creation
overview (page 13) and a copy of the character sheet from the back of the
book to create a character. (You can also download a copy of the character
sheet from our website at www.wizards.com/starwars.) When you, your
Gamemaster, and the other players are ready, start playing!

SETUP

After you've created a hero, get together with the rest of your gaming group
for your first adventure. Prior to this, the GM has developed a storyline for
the adventure. She might buy a complete, ready-to-play adventure or grab
one off of the Internet. Alternately, the GM might develop one using the
guidelines in Chapter 14: Gamemastering.

Pick an evening or a weekend afternoon or some other convenient time
when you and your friends can spend a few hours playing the Star Wars
Roleplaying Game. Decide on how much time you want to spend playing.
(Two to four hours is a good length for a game session.)

Where should you play the game? Anywhere that's comfortable. The
place should have a flat surface to roll dice on, such as a kitchen table. The
GM sits so that the other players can't look over her shoulder or peek at her
adventure notes. She needs enough room to spread out the rulebook and
any other materials she might have for the game session, including other
Star Wars books, a battle map, miniatures, a pencil or pen, dice, and her
adventure notes.

GENERAL ADVICE

The first couple of game sessions you play might be a little uneven as
everyone learns how the game works and gets comfortable with the idea
of roleplaying. Remember that these rules are guidelines, a framework and
structure for playing Star Wars adventures in a roleplaying game environment.
A roleplaying game is a living game; it evolves and develops as you play it. If
something isn't working for your group, and the entire group agrees, make
a change. But wait until you've played a few times with the official rules
before you decide to tinker.

THE FIRST GAME SESSION

You and your friends have reviewed the basic rules and created 1st-level
characters. Your Gamemaster has reviewed the rules and is ready to run her
first adventure. You've agreed upon a time and place to play. Then the time
arrives and the game begins!

Sitting around the table, with dice and snacks scattered in all directions,
the players gather. Michele is the GM. She takes her place at the head of the
table. Chris sits in the next seat; he's running Sia-Lan, a female Jedi. Next
to Chris is Mike, practicing his Wookiee sounds to inject a little authenticity
into his character, Rorworr the scout. Across the table, Penny makes some
last-minute notes on her character sheet, adding a little more detail to Vor'en
the soldier. Next to Penny, Brian anxiously waits to get started. He's running
Deel Surool, the crafty scoundrel.

Michele has selected a number of Star Wars miniatures from her collec-
tion to use in tonight's game. The figures will help the players visualize the
action in certain situations and will speed along play. She's got a miniature
to represent each of the players’ characters, and she places them in the


--- Page 12 ---
middle of the table. She leaves a few others hidden on the floor beside her.
She'll use these later to represent opponents that will challenge and compete
with the heroes.

Michele doesn't have a specific character for herself. While the players
each run a single hero, the Gamemaster narrates the story, adjudicates the
rules, and plays all of the GM characters—the supporting cast that serves
as allies and opponents for the heroes.

Anyway, it looks like everyone's ready to get started. Michele answers a
few last-minute rules questions, then begins the game.

Michele (GM): A Jong time ago, ina galaxy far, faraway... it is the time
of the Republic, about twenty-two years before the days of the Empire and
the first Death Star battle station. Supreme Chancellor Palpatine leads the
Republic, Mace Windu and Yoda lead the Jedi Council, and the start of the
Clone Wars is still a few weeks away.

You're ina spaceport cantina on Corellia, a prominent world in the galactic
core. The place is pretty busy for a weekday afternoon, though it's not packed
to capacity. You see humans and a variety of other species drinking, laughing,
ond talking quietly near the bar, in shadowy booths, and at a scattering of
freestanding tables. Among those you see are the other players’ characters.
Why don't you each take a moment to describe yourselves?

Chris (Sia-Lan): You see a young woman with brown hair sitting alone
in one of the booths. She's sipping a clear liquid and watching the crowd.
Her hairstyle and outfit mark her as a Jedi. She's a Padawan learner, if any of
you know anything about the specifics of the Jedi order. She has a lightsaber
hanging at her side, but it's probably hidden beneath the table.

Mike (Rorworr): There's a young male Wookiee standing at the bar. He's
exchanging words with the bartender. He's tall, but perhaps a bit thin when
compared to other Wookiees you may have seen. He's got a bowcaster slung
across his back, and he's nursing a huge mug of some foamy liquid.

Penny (Vor'en): My character sits in a corner booth, his back to the wall
as he nonchalantly studies the crowd. He's got dark eyes and an intense gaze,
and he looks strong and capable. He's wearing bits and pieces of light body
armor. If he has any weapons—and you're sure he does—they’re either hidden
under the table or in the booth's darker shadows.

Brian (Deel): You also see a young male Twi‘lek—you know, the guys with
the head-tails, like Bib Fortuna—sitting at one of the tables in the middle of
the room. He's playing sabacc with a few of the spacers, and it looks like he’s
begun to amass more than his share of credits.

Michele (GM): Okay. You've all noticed each other, but you don't know
each other yet. Before anything else happens, why don't each of you make a
Perception check for me?

The players each roll a d20 and add their Perception skill modifier to get
aresult. Ifa character doesn't have the Perception skill as a trained skill, the
player still gets to apply his Wisdom modifier (if any) to the roll. After all the
players have made the skill check, they let the GM know the results.

Chris (Sia-Lan): Sia-Lan got a 15.

Mike (Rorworr): 17 for Rorworr!

Penny (Vor'en): / rolled an 8.

Brian (Deel): The amazingly perceptive Deel Surool got a 22.

Michele consults her notes, checking to see what the DC for the Percep-
tion check is. She nods and makes a note or two, just to keep the players
guessing.

Michele (GM): Vor'en the soldier, even though he's watching the room,
fails to notice something that the rest of you successfully spot. The rest of
you see a Human male who looks a lot like Senator Alastar Treen of Corulag.
He's dressed like most of the other spacers in the cantina, and he's deep in
conversation with a Rodian female.

Just then, you all see the cantina doors slide open as a group of tough-look-
ing thugs enters the room. The bartender yells, “Hey, no blasters in here!” He
ducks behind the bar, just in time, as one of the thugs casually fires a blaster
bolt in his direction. There are four thugs—two Humans, a Rodian, and a
Gamorrean. The Gamorrean wields a vibroblade, and the other three are armed
with blaster pistols. The Gamorrean grunts something foul and gestures toward
the table where the senator is sitting.

“For the Separatists!” shouts one of the Humans with a sneer as he prepares
to target Senator Treen.

Everyone make an Initiative check!

The players each roll a d20 and add their Initiative skill modifier to get
a result. If a character doesn't have the Initiative skill as a trained skill, the
player still gets to apply his Dexterity modifier (if any) to the roll. Michele
rolls a single Initiative check for the group of thugs, and one for the disguised
senator and his companion.

Chris (Sia-Lan): Sia-Lan got an 18.

Mike (Rorworr): 70 for Rorworr!

Penny (Vor'en): Vor'en got a 12.

Brian (Deel): The fast-acting Deel Surool got a 15.

Michele writes down the initiative order, from highest result to lowest. She
jots down:

Sia-Lan 18

Deel 15

Thugs 13 (her roll)

Vor'en 12

Rorworr 10

Senator 7 (her roll)

Michele (GM): The thugs look like they're gunning for the senator. Sia-Lan,
what are you going to do?

Chris (Sia-Lan): / /eap out of the booth and position myself between the
senator and the thugs as my first move action. As my second move action |
draw my lightsaber. As a free action, | activate the lightsaber and shout, “This
man is under the protection of the Jedi Knights!”

NOLONGOe LN:

f
§
D
®
a
i
>
Z
&
g
W
2)
0)
>
ay
<s

|
|



--- Page 13 ---
NOmMmOonaogoyini

ABVSPUSAAINANY wOS SHIM BVLS

Michele (GM): Your lightsaber hums to life. Deel, you're next. What are
you going to do?

Brian (Deel): Helping a senator and a Jedi could be profitable. Deel tips
his table over and crouches behind it to get some cover. | guess that's a move
action. Then he pulls out his blaster for his second move action.

Michele (GM): When the table crashes onto its side, sabacc card-chips
and credits scatter across the floor. The spacers you were playing with dive
for cover.

Brian (Deel): Oops, | forgot about the sabacc game in all the excitement.
No matter, | guess. Most of the credits belonged to Deel, anyway.

Michele (GM): The thugs act next. The two humans each take a shot
at the Jedi who's standing between them and the senator. The Rodian thug
takes a shot at Deel, and the Gamorrean rushes forward to slice at the Jedi
with his vibroblade.

Chris (Sia-Lan): /'m going to use the table next to me to protect myself
from the blaster shots.



--- Page 14 ---
Michele (GM): Sure. That gives you cover against all the thugs, but
increases your Reflex Defense by +4.

Michele makes the attack rolls for the two thugs. The first one gets an
11. The second one gets a 19.

Sia-Lan's Reflex Defense when she uses cover to protect herself is 19. That
means she blocks the first bolt, but the second bolt gets through.

Michele rolls 3d6 damage for the successful blaster pistol attack. The total
is 11. Sia-Lan has 22 hit points, so the attack reduces her hit points to 11.

The rest of the round continues, with Michele finishing up the thug's
actions, then Vor'en, Rorworr, and Senator Treen acting in turn. Each round
plays out in this order until one side or the other is defeated or flees. Then the
heroes would get a chance to meet each other and find out why the senator
isin disguise and under attack. And so begins this Star Wars adventure!

CHARACTER CREATION

Make sure you review Chapters 1 through 9 before using this overview when
creating a Star Wars character. Make a copy of the character sheet from the
back of this book to use as a record of your character.

Characters generally begin play at 1st level and attain additional levels
as they complete adventures.

1. GENERATE ABILITY SCORES
Every character has six abilities that represent the character's basic strengths
and weaknesses. These abilities—Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelli-
gence, Wisdom, and Charisma—affect everything a hero does, from fighting
to using skills.

Ascore of 10 or 11 in an ability is average. Higher scores grant bonuses,
and lower scores give penalties. When you create your character, you'll want
to put your higher scores into the abilities most closely associated with your
character's class.

Use one of the methods described in Chapter 1: Abilities to generate your
six ability scores. Record the scores on a piece of scrap paper and put them
aside for the moment.

2. SELECT YOUR SPECIES
As a Star Wars character, you aren't limited to simply being Human. There
are a variety of species available, from Mon Calamari to Wookiee. Select the
species you want to play from those presented in Chapter 2: Species.

Each species has its own set of special abilities and modifiers. Record
these traits on your character sheet.

3. CHOOSE YOUR CLASS

A class provides you with a starting point for your character, a frame upon
which you can hang skills, feats, and various story elements. Choose a class
from those presented in Chapter 3: Heroic Classes and write it on your
character sheet.

4. ASSIGN ABILITY SCORES

Now that you know what species and class you want your character to be,
take the scores you generated earlier and assign each to one of the six abili-
ties: Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma.
Then make any adjustments to these scores according to the species you
selected.

For guidance, each class description indicates which abilities are most
important for that class. You might want to put your highest scores in the
abilities that accentuate the natural benefits of the class.

Record your ability scores on your character sheet. Record your ability
modifiers as well.

5. DETERMINE COMBAT
STATISTICS

In combat, you need to know your character's hit points, defenses, damage
threshold, attack bonuses, and speed, as well as how many Force Points he
has to spend.

Hit Points
Each character can withstand a certain amount of damage before falling
unconscious or dying. This ability to take damage and keep on functioning
is represented by the character's hit points.

Your class determines how many hit points you have at 1st level, as
shown below:

CLASS STARTING HIT POINTS

Noble, scoundrel 18 + Constitution modifier
Scout 24 + Constitution modifier
Jedi, soldier 30 + Constitution modifier

For example, if your character belongs to the scoundrel class and you
have a 12 Constitution, you start with 19 hit points (18 plus 1 for your
Constitution bonus).

Your hit points increase as you gain levels, as described on page 37.

Defenses
Determine your character's defenses as follows:

Reflex Defense: 10 + your heroic level or armor bonus + Dexterity modi-
fier + class bonus + natural armor bonus + size modifier

Fortitude Defense: 10 + your heroic level + Constitution modifier + class
bonus + equipment bonus

Will Defense: 10 + your heroic level + Wisdom modifier + class bonus

When you take your first level in a heroic class, you gain class bonuses
on two or more defenses, as shown on page 36.

NoILONGOe.LNi

al
A
;
i
a
||
>
2
w
g
g
id
i)
>
D
K


--- Page 15 ---
If you wear armor, you must substitute your armor bonus for your heroic
level when calculating your Reflex Defense. For example, a 1st-level soldier
with a Dexterity of 12 wearing a blast helmet and vest (+2 armor bonus)
has a Reflex Defense of 13 (10 + 2 armor + 1 Dex + 1 class). Some types
of armor also provide an equipment bonus to your Fortitude Defense in
addition to an armor bonus to your Reflex Defense (as noted in Table 8-7:
Armor, page 132).

)

NOMOIMNAOWMLN

q
5
§
D
@
a
i
| >
Z
@
<
WY
au)
@
>
2)
x

Damage Threshold
Attacks that deal massive amounts of damage can impair or incapacitate
you regardless of how many hit points you have remaining. Your damage
threshold determines how much damage a single attack must deal to reduce
your combat effectiveness or, in some cases, kill you.

A Small or Medium character's damage threshold is equal to his or her For-
titude Defense. Record this number on your character sheet.



--- Page 16 ---
Base Attack Bonus
Your character's class determines your base attack bonus. Record this number
on the character sheet.

Jedi and soldiers have a base attack bonus of +1 at 1st level; nobles,
scoundrels, and scouts have a base attack bonus of +0 at 1st level.

Melee Attack Bonus

To determine your melee attack bonus, add your Strength modifier to your
base attack bonus. Certain feats and talents might provide additional modi-
fiers, so make adjustments as necessary.

Ranged Attack Bonus

To determine your ranged attack bonus, add your Dexterity modifier to your
base attack bonus. Certain feats and talents might provide additional modi-
fiers, so make adjustments as necessary.

Speed
Your character's species determines her speed. Most species have a speed of
6 squares. Ewoks have a speed of 4 squares because they are Small.

Force Points
Your character begins play with 5 Force Points. Indicate this in the space
provided on the character sheet.

If you end up taking the Force Boon feat (page 85), you gain an additional
3 Force Points.

Destiny Point

If your GM uses the optional destiny rules described in Chapter 7: Heroic
Traits, your character begins play with 1 Destiny Point. Indicate this in the
space provided on the character sheet.

6. SELECT SKILLS

Skills represent how well a character accomplishes dramatic tasks other
than combat, such as disabling a tractor beam generator or climbing a
sheer surface.

Each class comes with a list of class skills. From this list, you get to pick
a number of skills in which your character is considered trained. The number
of trained skills your character gets depends on the class you've selected and
your character's Intelligence modifier. Once you've selected your character's
trained skills, determine the skill check modifier for each skill.

The skill check modifier for trained skills is one-half your character level
(rounded down) + the relevant ability modifier + 5. If you are untrained ina
skill, the skill check modifier is one-half your character level (rounded down)
+ the relevant ability modifier. (In other words, you get a +5 bonus on skill
checks made using trained skills.)

Some skills cannot be used untrained. See Chapter 4: Skills for more
information.

7. SELECT FEATS
Feats are special features that provide a character with new capabilities or
improvements.

Your character begins play with at least one feat. If you are playing a
Human, you get a bonus feat. In addition, your class also gives you several
starting feats that you get for free.

Select your feats from Chapter 5: Feats and record them on the character
sheet. Some feats may affect the information you've already recorded, so
make adjustments as necessary.

8. SELECT A TALENT

At 1st level, your character gets a talent (a special class feature). Choose
a talent from any of the talent trees presented in your character's class
description. Some talents have prerequisites that must be met before they
can be selected.

9. DETERMINE STARTING
CREDITS AND Buy GEAR

Your character's class determines how many credits you start play with. Use
your credits to purchase equipment for your character. Chapter 8: Equipment
describes weapons, armor, and gear you can select from.

10. FINISH YOUR CHARACTER
The last details you need to add to your character sheet help you visualize
and roleplay your character. You need a name, of course—something that
fits your class, species, and the Star Wars galaxy. You should also determine
your character's age, gender, height, weight, eye and hair color, skin color,
and any relevant background information you want to provide. (Make sure
to run your ideas past your Gamemaster so that he or she can fit them into
the campaign.)

Chapter 7: Heroic Traits provides guidelines that can help you with these
details and characteristics.

)

NOPMLONGOWLNy

5
S
ai)
)
a
i
>
Z
&
<
W
5)
(a)
>
ai)
S


--- Page 17 ---
se eosin Tim

;



--- Page 18 ---
Just about every dice roll you make is going to geta bonus or penalty based,

on your character's abilities. A tough character has a better chance of surviv-
ing a freezing night on Hoth. A perceptive character is more likely to notice
stormtroopers sneaking up from behind. A stupid character is less likely to
find a concealed panel that leads to a secret cargo compartment. Your ability
scores tell you what your modifiers are for rolls such as these.

Your character has six abilities: Strength (abbreviated Str), Dexterity
(Dex), Constitution (Con), Intelligence (Int), Wisdom (Wis), and Charisma
(Cha). Each of your character's above-average abilities gives you a benefit
on certain die rolls, and each below-average ability gives you a disadvantage
on other die rolls. You roll your scores randomly, assign them to the abilities
you like, raise and lower them according to your character's species, and
then raise them as your character advances in experience.

YOUR ABILITY SCORES

To create an ability score for your character, roll four six-sided dice (4d6).
Disregard the lowest die and total the three highest dice.

This roll gives you a number between 3 (horrible) and 18 (tremendous).
The average ability score for the typical galactic citizen is 10 or 11, but your
character is not typical. The most common ability scores for player characters
(heroes) are 12 and 13. (The average hero is above average.)

Make this roll six times, recording the result each time on a piece of paper.
Once you have all six scores, assign each score to one of your six abilities. At this
step, you need to know what kind of person your character is going to be, includ-
ing his species and class, in order to know where best to place your character's
ability scores. Remember that choosing a species other than Human causes some

of these ability scores to change (see Table 2-1: Species Ability Adjustments). -

ABILITY MODIFIERS

Each ability, after changes made because of species, has a -5 to +5 modi-
fier. Table 1-1: Ability Modifiers shows the modifier for each ability, based
on its score.

The modifier is the number you add to or subtract from the die roll when
your character tries to do something related to that ability. For instance,
you add or subtract your Strength modifier to your roll when you try to hit
someone with a vibroblade. You also apply the modifier to some numbers
that aren't die rolls, such as when you add or subtract your Dexterity modifier
to your Reflex Defense. A positive modifier is called a bonus and a negative
modifier is called a penalty. i

REROLLING

- If your scores are too low, you may scrap them and reroll all six scores. Your
scores are considered too low if your total modifiers (before changes accord-
ing to species) are 0 or less, or if your highest score is 13 or lower.

0
x
>
v
4
0
D



--- Page 19 ---
SCORE MODIFIER SCORE MODIFIER SCORE MODIFIER
ee 12-13 +1 24-25 +7
2-8 -4 14-15 +2 26-27 +8
4-5 4 16-17 +3 28-29 +9
6-7 4 18-19 +4 30-31 +10
8-9 -1 20-21 +5 ety BiG.
10-11 0 22-23 +6

PLANNED GENERATION
Instead of rolling dice, you may select the scores you want by using the
planned character generation method. This requires a bit more thought and
effort on your part, since you need to know what kind of character you want
to play so you can select your scores appropriately. Determine your species
and class beforehand, then select your scores as outlined below.

Your character's ability scores all start at 8. You have 25 points to spend
to increase these scores, using the costs shown below. After you select your
scores, apply any species modifiers.

SCORE COST SCORE COST SCORE COST
8 0 12 4 16 10
g) 1 13 5 17 13

10 2 14 6 18 16

i) 3 15 8

STANDARD SCORE PACKAGE
The third method of determining ability scores is the standard score pack-
age, a balanced mix of scores designed to quickly create hero characters.
Assign the scores to the abilities as you like. After you assign your scores,
apply species modifiers.

The standard score package is:

15, 14, 13, 12, 10, and 8.

THE ABILITIES

Each ability partially describes your character and affects some of your
character's actions. The description of each ability includes a list of notable
characters along with their scores in that ability.

STRENGTH (STR)
Strength measures your character's muscle and physical power. This ability
is especially important for soldiers because it helps them prevail in physical
combat.

You apply your character's Strength modifier to:

—Melee attack rolls.

—Damage rolls for melee and thrown weapons. (Exceptions: Grenades
don't have their damage modified by Strength.)

—Climb, Jump, and Swim checks (the skills with Strength as the key
ability).

—Strength checks (for breaking down doors and the like).

DEXTERITY (DEx)
Dexterity measures hand-eye coordination, agility, reflexes, and balance.
This ability is the most important ability for scoundrels, but it's also high
on the list for characters who want to be good shots with ranged weapons
(such as blaster pistols) or who want to handle the controls of a starship or
speeder fairly well.

You apply your character's Dexterity modifier to:

—Ranged attack rolls, such as with blasters.

—Reflex Defense, provided the character can react to the attack.

—Acrobatics, Pilot, Ride, and Stealth checks (the skills where Dexterity
is the key ability).

CONSTITUTION (CON)

Constitution represents your character's health and stamina. Constitution
adds to a hero's hit points, so it's important for everyone, but most important
for soldiers and Jedi.

You apply your Constitution modifier to:

—Each die roll for gaining additional hit points (though a penalty can
never drop a hit point roll below 1; a character always gains at least 1 hit
point each time he or she goes up a level).

—Fortitude Defense, for resisting poison, radiation, and similar threats.

—The Endurance skill.

If a character's Constitution changes, his or her hit points should also
increase or decrease accordingly. :

INTELLIGENCE (INT)
Intelligence determines how well your character learns and reasons. Intel-
ligence is important for scouts, nobles, and any character who wants to have
a wide assortment of skills.
You apply your character's Intelligence modifier to:
—The number of languages your character knows at the start of the game.
—The number of trained skills you have.


--- Page 20 ---
—Knowledge, Mechanics, and Use Computer checks (the skills with Intel-
ligence as the key ability).

Beasts have Intelligence scores of 1 or 2. Sentient creatures have scores
of at least 3.

When a character's Intelligence score permanently increases or decreases,
its number of trained skills and known languages also changes. For example, if
Paul's Wookiee scout increases his Intelligence from 13 to 14, his Int modifier
goes from +1 to +2. Paul's Wookiee gains one new trained skill (chosen from
his class skills) and one new language. The Wookiee's greater Intelligence allows
him to utilize things he had learned but never before applied properly.

WIsDOM (Wis)
Every creature has a Wisdom score. Wisdom describes a character's willpower,
common sense, perception, and intuition. Compared to Intelligence, Wisdom
is more related to being in tune with and aware of one's surroundings, while
Intelligence represents one's ability to analyze information. An “absent-
minded professor” has a low Wisdom score and a high Intelligence score.
A simpleton with low Intelligence might nevertheless have great insight
(high Wisdom). Wisdom is the most important ability for scouts, but it's
also important to characters wishing to be in-tune with their environment
or characters who like to gamble. If you want your character to have keen
senses, put a high score in Wisdom.

You apply your character's Wisdom modifier to:

—Will Defense, generally for resisting certain Force attacks.

—Perception, Survival, and Treat Injury checks (the skills with Wisdom
as the key ability).

—The number of Force powers you learn when you take the Force Train-
ing feat.

When a Force-using character's Wisdom score permanently increases
or decreases, his number of known Force powers also changes. For every
instance of the Force Training feat that you have, you gain one Force power
(or an additional use of an already-known Force power) for every point by
which your Wisdom modifier increases. If you instead suffer a permanent
reduction in your Wisdom modifier, you lose access to the same number of
Force powers; you must choose which Force powers (or extra uses of the
same Force power) you lose.

CHARISMA (CHA)
Every creature has a Charisma score. Charisma measures a character's force
of personality, persuasiveness, personal magnetism, ability to lead, and physi-
cal attractiveness. It represents actual strength of personality and force of
presence, not merely how others perceive you in a social setting. Charisma
is most important for nobles and Jedi.

You apply your Charisma modifier to:

INTELLIGENCE, WISDOM,

AND CHARISMA

A character with a high Intelligence score is curious, knowledgeable, ©
and prone to using big words. A character with a high Intelligence but
low Wisdom may be smart but absent-minded, or knowledgeable but.
lacking in common sense. A character with a high Intelligence but a
low Charisma may be a know-it-all or a reclusive scholar. The smart
character lacking in both Wisdom and Charisma usually puts her foot
in her mouth.

A character with a low Intelligence mispronounces and misuses
words, has trouble following directions, or fails to get the joke.

A character with a high Wisdom score may be sensible, serene, “in
tune," alert, or centered. A character with a high Wisdom but a low
Intelligence may be aware, but simple. A character with a high Wisdom
but a low Charisma knows enough to speak carefully and may become
an adviser or “power behind the throne” rather than a leader.

A character with a low Wisdom score may be rash, imprudent, irre-
sponsible, or “out of it.”

A character with a high Charisma may be beautiful, handsome, strik-
ing, personable, and confident. A character with a high Charisma but a
low Intelligence can usually pass herself off as knowledgeable, until she
meets a true expert. A charismatic character with a low Wisdom may _
be popular, but he doesn't know who his real friends are.

A character with a low Charisma may be reserved, gruff, rude, fawn-
ing, or simply nondescript.

—Deception, Gather Information, Persuasion, and Use the Force checks
(skills with Charisma as the key ability).

CHANGING
ABILITY SCORES

Over time, your character's ability scores can change. Ability scores can
increase without limit.

e At 4th, 8th, 12th, 16th, and 20th level, a heroic character increases two
ability scores by 1 point each.

e Asa character ages, some ability scores go up and others go down. See
Table 7-2: Aging Effects (page 110) for details.

When an ability score changes, all attributes associated with that score
change accordingly. For example, when Sia-Lan becomes a 4th-level Jedi,
she increases her Dexterity from 15 to 16 and increases her Charisma from
13 to 14. Now she's harder to hit, better at using ranged weapons, and all of
her Dexterity-based and Charisma-based skills improve as well.

HSeLavyHS

>
a)
c
J
W
w

|
f
ie



--- Page 21 ---
ASA ANNU

SPECIES



--- Page 22 ---
The Star Wars galaxy contains a bewildering variety of species, each with its
own unique outlook and civilization. Although Humans dominate the known
galaxy, there are many intelligent alien species that can be encountered
wherever you travel.

Humans live among the Core Worlds, throughout the Mid Rim, and even
on the worlds of the Outer Rim Territories. Most of the alien species have
their own homeworlds and colonies, but individuals can be found anywhere,
thanks to the prevalence of hyperspace travel. The promise of profit and
power often lure members of all species to the same areas, including space-
ports and metropolitan cities.

Sometimes it's easy to believe that all Rodians are outlaws or all Wookiees
are short-tempered, but the truth is that every member of every species is
unique. Depending on the era in which your campaign is set, nonhuman
species have. different social advantages or disadvantages, as explained in
the Era Notes: Species sidebar (page 23).

CHOOSING A SPECIES

After you roll your ability scores and before you write them on your charac-
ter sheet, choose your character's species. At the same time, you'll want to
» select your character's class, since species affects how well the character
can do in each class. Once you've decided your character's species and class,
_ assign ability scores to particular abilities. Alter the scores according to the
species (see Table 2-1: Species Ability Modifiers) and continue detailing
r character.
You can play a character of any species presented in this chapter, but
€rtain species do better pursuing certain classes.
Your character's species provides plenty of clues as to the sort of person
or she is, how he or she feels about characters of other species, and what
motivates him or her. Remember, however, that the species descriptions only
apply to the majority of people. In each species, some individuals diverge
\ from the norm, and your character can be one of these. Don't let a descrip-
tion hinder you from detailing your character as you like.

i) S8ievH5



--- Page 23 ---
SPECIES
CHARACTERISTICS

Your character's species determines some of his or her qualities.

ABILITY ADJUSTMENTS
Find your character's species on Table 2-1: Species Ability Adjustments and
apply the adjustments that you see there to your character's ability scores.
If the changes raise a score above 18 or lower it below 3, that's okay.

For example, a Rodian gets a +2 species bonus on his Dexterity score and
a -2 penalty on his Wisdom and Charisma scores. Knowing this, the player
puts her best score rolled (15) in Dexterity and sees it increase to 17. She
doesn't want a Wisdom or Charisma penalty for her character, so she puts
above-average scores (13 and 12) in Wisdom and Charisma. These drop to
11 and 10, for neither a bonus nor a penalty.

SPECIES ABILITY ADJUSTMENTS

Bothan +2 Dex, -2 Con

+2 Dex, +2 Int, -2 Con

Duros

Gamorrean +2 Str, -2 Dex, -2 Int

Ithorian +2 Wis, +2 Cha, -2 Dex

Mon Calamari +2 Int, +2 Wis, -2 Con

Rodian +2 Dex, -2 Wis, -2 Cha

Trandoshan +2 Str, -2 Dex

Wookiee +4 Str, +2 Con, -2 Dex, -2 Wis, -2 Cha

COMMON LANGUAGES:
The Star Wars galaxy is home to millions
languages wy ae character doesn't need to

Basic

Binary

Bocce

Bothese

Cerean

Dosh

Durese

Ewokese*

Gamorrean

Gunganese*

High Galactic
* Local language not widely spoken except on its planet of origin.

“THE ABILITY
TO SPEAK DOES
NOT MAKE YOU

INTELLIGENT.”

—- Qui-GoOn JINN

KNOWN LANGUAGES

The primary language used throughout known space is called Basic. Most
characters can speak Basic, and all characters understand it even if they can't
speak it. Nonhuman characters can also speak, read, and write the language
associated with their species; for example, Bothans speak, read, and write
Bothese as well as Basic.

Characters with an Intelligence bonus know how to speak, read, and write
other languages as well. For each point of Intelligence bonus, a character can
speak, read, and write one additional language of his choice.

Some species (Gamorreans and Wookiees, for example) are incapable of
speaking any language other than their native tongue, but they can learn to
read and write other languages just fine.


--- Page 24 ---
HUMAN

HMUMANS

Humans dominate the Core Worlds
and can be found in virtually every
corner of the galaxy. They are
the ancestors of early spacefaring
pioneers, conquerors, traders, trav-
elers, and refugees. Humans have
always been people on the move.
As a result, they can be found on
almost every inhabited planet. As
a species, Humans are physically,
culturally, and politically diverse.
Hardy or fine, light-skinned or dark,
Humans remain one of the most
dominant species throughout all
eras of play.

Personality: Human personal-
ity runs the gamut of possibilities, though members of this species tend
to be highly adaptable, tenacious, and willing to keep striving no matter
the odds. They are flexible and ambitious, diverse in their tastes, morals,
customs, and habits.

Physical Description: Humans average about 1.8 meters tall. Skin shades
run from nearly black to very pale, hair from black to blond. Men are usually
taller and heavier than women. Humans achieve maturity about the age of
15 and rarely live beyond 100.

Homeworlds: Various, including Coruscant (page 229), Corellia, Naboo
(page 233), Tatooine (page 236), and Alderaan.

Languages: Humans speak, read, and write Basic. They often learn other
languages as well, including obscure ones.

Example Names: Anakin, Arani, Bail, Ben, Beru, Biggs, Boba, Corran, Dack,
Dané, Galak, Garm, Han, Jango, Jodo, Lando, Leia, Luke, Mace, Mara, Obi-Wan,
Owen, Padmé, Qui-Gon, Sia-Lan, Rann, Talon, Vor'en, Wedge, Winter.

Adventurers: Humans aren't afraid to try anything, and Human adventur-
ers are the most audacious, daring, and ambitious members of an audacious,
daring, and ambitious species. A Human can earn glory by amassing power,
wealth, and fame. More than any other species, Humans champion causes
rather than territories or groups.

HUMAN GSGPECIES TRAITS
Humans share the following species traits:

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Humans have no special bonuses
or penalties due to their size.

Speed: Human base speed is 6 squares.

Bonus Trained Skill: Humans are versatile and accomplished at many
tasks. A Human character chooses one additional trained skill at 1st level.

The skill must be chosen from the character's list of class skills (see Chapter
3: Heroic Classes).

Bonus Feat: Humans gain one bonus feat at 1st level (see Chapter 5:
Feats).

Automatic Language: Basic.

BOTHANS

Native to Bothawui, these short, fur-covered humanoids have had hyper-
space travel for thousands of years. Bothans use information as a measure
of wealth and power, even wielding it as a weapon when necessary. The

ERA NOTES: SPECIES

Nonhuman characters have some restrictions placed upon them,
depending on the era in which your campaign is set. These restrictions
are described below.

The Rise of the Empire (50 to O years before Episode IV)

During the time that saw the erosion of the Old Republic and the rise
of the Empire, including the period around Episodes I-III, all species
participated in a more or less cosmopolitan galaxy. The only restrictions
on your choice of an alien species in this time frame refer to species that
have not yet “been discovered” by the galaxy at large. Ewoks, therefore,
are not available if your campaign is set in this era.

The Rebellion (0 to 5 years after Episode IV)
The Empire was particularly entrenched with anti-alien sentiments.
During this period of galactic history, most alien species were either
enslaved or subjugated by the Empire. In the Outer Rim, nonhuman spe-
cies continued to carry on their lives as normally as they were able, but
in the more civilized regions, nonhumans were relegated to the status
of second-class citizens—or worse. Many aliens joined the Rebellion,
fighting alongside humans in an effort to throw off the shackles of
oppression and tyranny. Ewoks show up late in this era, during the
Battle of Endor, and free Wookiees rarely appear due to their status
as slaves of the Empire.

Late in this era, with the decline of the Empire and the birth of the
New Republic, nonhumans once again take a prominent and equal role
in the affairs of the galaxy.

The New Jedi Order (25+ years after Episode IV)

All alien species are available without restriction in this time frame. The
era is marked by the New Republic's battle against the Yuuzhan Vong
invaders and tainted by growing distrust of the Jedi Knights.

va LteavHoa

Sleds



--- Page 25 ---
LSeSalavHa

Se1e9eS

Bothan SpyNet, one of the largest
intelligence agencies during most
eras, plays an important role in the
Galactic Civil War.

Culturally, Bothans don't
believe in direct conflict because
it destroys people, material, and
even information. They prefer
behind-the-scenes manipulation,
watching and waiting for infor-
mation that they can use to gain
status and influence. This attitude
makes espionage a natural part of
their culture. While others often
find Bothans to be manipulative
and irritating, no one wants to lose
access to their SpyNet. As a result,
nearly all groups have at least some contact with the Bothans.

Personality: Bothans are curious, manipulative, crafty, suspicious,
and even a bit paranoid. They can be irritating, but they are also loyal and
brave.

Physical Description: Bothans are covered with fur that ripples in
response to their emotional state. They have tapered ears, and both male and
female Bothans sport beards. They average about 1.6 meters tall and have a
maturity rate and life span slightly greater than Humans.

Homeworld: The industrial world of Bothawui (page 228), with various
colony worlds throughout the Mid Rim Territories.

Languages: Bothans speak, read, and write Bothese and Basic.

Example Names: Borsk Fey'lya, Karka Kre'fey, Koth Melan, Tav Breil'lya,
Tereb Ab'lon.

Adventurers: Bothan adventurers, often SpyNet operatives, engage in
daring missions at great personal risk. In addition, many Bothan heroes serve
as soldiers, pilots, and diplomats. Their curiosity leads some to be explorers
and scouts.

BOTHAN SPECIES TRAITS
Bothans share the following species traits:

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Constitution. Bothans are agile but
not particularly resilient.

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Bothans have no special bonuses
or penalties due to their size.

Speed: Bothan base speed is 6 squares.

lron Will: Bothans have above-average willpower and gain a +2 species
bonus to their Will Defense.

Conditional Bonus Feat: Bothans are natural spies and investigators. A
Bothan with Gather Information as a trained skill gains Skill Focus (Gather
Information) as a bonus feat.

Automatic Languages: Basic and Bothese.

CEREANS

Cereans are a sophisticated and cultured humanoid species native to Cerea,
a world on the fringes of known space. Their elongated heads distinguish
them from most other humanoid species.

Cereans established contact with the rest of the galaxy shortly before the
Galactic Republic was transformed into the Empire, swiftly gaining fame as
expert astrogators, cryptographers, and economists. Few patterns or trends
escape the notice of a Cerean.

Cerean society is matriarchal, and the Cerean culture's traditional values
emphasize living in harmony with nature and minimizing any impact on the
environment from technology. The peaceful philosophies of the Jedi appeal
to Cereans, and many join the Order.

Personality: Cereans tend to be calm, rational, and extremely logical.

Physical Description: Cereans average about 2 meters tall, with elon-
gated craniums housing binary brains. They have a maturity rate and life
span similar to those of Humans.

Homeworld: The blissful planet Cerea (page 228).

Languages: Cereans speak, read, and write Cerean and Basic.

Example Names: Ki-Adi, So Leet, Sylvn, Ti-Dal, Maj-Odo.

Adventurers: Cereans who become adventurers do so in spite of their
peaceful traditions. Still, when a cause or situation leads down this path, a
Cerean tries to keep these traditions intact, avoiding aggression when pos-
sible. The binary brain allows a Cerean to constantly weigh both sides in any
disagreement and give two points of view equal consideration. This ability
extends even to issues surrounding
the Force, and a Cerean Force-user
often contemplates the light side
and the dark side simultaneously.

CEREAN
SPECIES
TRAITS

Cereans share the following spe-
cies traits:

Ability Modifiers: +2 Intel-
ligence, +2 Wisdom, -2 Dexterity.
Cereans are bright and intuitive
but less coordinated than most
other species.

CEREAN


--- Page 26 ---
Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Cereans have no special bonuses or
penalties due to their size.

Speed: Cerean base speed is 6 squares.

Intuitive Initiative: A Cerean may choose to reroll any Initiative check,
but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. Despite their
general lack of coordination, Cereans' reaction speed is superior to that of
most other species.

Conditional Bonus Feat: A Cerean with Initiative as a trained skill gains
Skill Focus (Initiative) as a bonus feat.

Automatic Languages: Basic and Cerean.

DUROS

Tall, hairless humanoids from the Duro system, Duros were one of the first
species to become a major influence in the Galactic Republic, and many
respected scholars credited the Duros with creating the first hyperdrive. The
Duros have a natural affinity for space travel, possessing an innate grasp of
the mathematical underpinnings of astrogational computations. Many tales
are swapped in cantinas about Duros astrogators calculating the coordinates
for supposedly impossible jumps in their heads. Although not as numerous
as Humans, the Duros are almost as omnipresent; all but the smallest settle-
ments in known space feature Duros populations.

The Duros species has existed on other worlds in isolation from the rest
of their kind, evolving in slight different directions from the baseline species.
The most populous and well-known near-Duros species are the Neimoidians,
a people rarely encountered during the Rebellion era.

Personality: A Duros tends to be intense and adventurous, always
seeking to learn what's at the end of the next hyperspace jump. They are a
proud, self-sufficient, fun-loving people who also have a tendency toward
gregariousness.

Physical Description: Duros
average about 1.8 meters tall.
They are hairless, with large eyes
and wide, lipless mouths. Skin
color ranges from blue-gray to
deep azure.

Homeworld: The orbiting cities
of the Duro system (page 230).

Languages: Duros speak and
are literate in Durese and Basic.

Example Names: Baniss Keeg,
Ellor, Kadlo, Kir Vantai, Lai Nootka,
Monnda Tebbo.

Adventurers: Duros adventur-
ers include hyperspace explorers,
star charters, and spacers of all
descriptions. They also tend to

DuROS

gravitate toward the sciences, including engineering and astrogation. Some
Duros shun exploration in favor of smuggling and trading, and a small number
go into diplomatic professions.

DuUROS SPECIES TRAITS
Duros share the following species traits:
Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, +2 Intelligence, -2 Constitution. Duros
are agile in mind and body, but they aren't a physically hardy people.
Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Duros have no special bonuses or
penalties due to their size.
Speed: Duros base speed is 6 squares.
Expert Pilot: As natural spacers, a Duros may choose to reroll any Pilot
check, but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse.
Automatic Languages: Basic and Durese.

EwoKks

Intelligent omnivores native to one of the moons orbiting Endor, Ewoks are
almost unknown prior to the Battle of Endor. Ewoks live in tree-dwelling
tribes with gender-based division of labor; males hunt, forage, and make
weapons, while females raise young and handle other domestic tasks. Ewok
culture revolves around complex animistic beliefs involving the giant trees
of the forest moon.

Although technologically primitive, Ewoks are clever, inquisitive, and
inventive. Skittish and wary when first introduced to machines, their curiosity
soon overcomes fear.

Personality: Ewoks tend to be curious, superstitious, and courageous,
though they can be fearful around things that are strange and new.

Physical Description: Ewoks average about 1 meter tall. Their fur color
and pattern varies widely.

Homeworld: The forest moon of
Endor (page 230).

Languages: Ewoks speak
Ewokese. They have no written
form of their language. They can
learn to speak Basic.

Example Names: Asha, Chirpa,
Deej, Kneesaa, Latara, Logray,
Malani, Nippet, Paploo, Shodu,
Teebo, Wicket, Wiley.

Adventurers: An Ewok adven-
turer may be motivated by a love of
excitement, a natural inquisitive-
ness, or a warrior's quest. Collect-
ing powerful “magic” items from
fallen opponents is sure way to earn
the respect of the tribe.

EwoKr

soudaSs

fi HBStevra



--- Page 27 ---
HSeidvHa

Slog Ss

Ewok SPECIES TRAITS
Ewoks share the following species traits:

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Strength. Ewoks are very agile but
somewhat weak.

Small Size: As Small creatures, Ewoks gain a +1 size bonus to their Reflex
Defense and a +5 size bonus on Stealth checks. However, their lifting and
carrying limits are three-quarters of those of Medium characters.

Speed: Ewok base speed is 4 squares.

Primitive: Ewoks do not gain Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, or
heavy weapons) as starting feats at 1st level, even if their class normally
grants them.

Scent: Ewoks have a keen sense of smell. At close range (within 10
squares), Ewoks ignore concealment and cover for purposes of Perception
checks, and they take no penalty from poor visibility when tracking (see
Survival skill, page 73).

Sneaky: An Ewok may choose to reroll any Stealth check, but the result
of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse.

Conditional Bonus Feat: Ewoks are skilled foragers. An Ewok with Sur-
vival as a trained skill gains Skill Focus (Survival) as a bonus feat.

Automatic Languages: Ewokese (speak only).

GAMORREANS

Gamorreans are green-skinned, porcine creatures from native to Gamorr.
Their tendency toward violence makes them valued as criminal enforcers;
though viewed as mindless brutes, they don't care so long as they are paid
to fight.

Gamorrean civilization revolves around the never-ending wars between
their clans. Preferring large melee weapons in combat, many see ranged
weapons as cowardly. Males live to fight; females farm, hunt, and manu-
facture weapons. Inter-clan hatred
rarely fades, and anyone hiring
Gamorreans should be aware of
their clans to avoid infighting.

Personality: Gamorreans are
brutish, violent, and proud. They
respect physical prowess and have
no problem facing death against a
foe they feel they are on at least
equal footing with.

Physical Description: Gamor-
reans average about 1.8 meters
tall, with thick green skin covering
powerful muscles. Close-set eyes, a
thick snout, tusks, and small horns
give them a distinct look.

GAMORREAN

Homeworld: The preindustrial world of Gamorr (pae 231).

Languages: Gamorreans speak Gamorrean. They have no written ver-
sion of the language. They can learn to understand but not speak other
languages.

Example Names: Gartogg, Jubnuk, Ortugg, Ugmush, Venorra, Warlug.

Adventurers: Some Gamorreans leave their homeworld as slaves but
later escape or buy out their contracts. Others sell their contracts, finding
employment as bodyguards or enforcers. A Gamorrean is constantly at war;
it's only a matter of figuring out who the enemy is. Gamorrean heroes tend
to select the soldier class.

GAMORREAN SPECIES TRAITS
Gamorreans share the following species traits:

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, -2 Dexterity, -2 Intelligence. Gamorreans
possess greater physical power, but have limited agility and intelligence.

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Gamorreans have no special bonuses
or penalties due to their size.

Speed: Gamorrean base speed is 6 squares.

Primitive: Gamorreans do not gain Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles,
or heavy weapons) as starting feats at 1st level, even if their class normally
grants them.

Great Fortitude: Gamorreans gain a +2 species bonus to their Fortitude
Defense, accounting for their great physical resistance.

Bonus Feat: Gamorreans gain Improved Damage Threshold as a bonus
feat.

Automatic Languages: Basic (cannot speak) and Gamorrean (speak
only).

GUNGANS

Pad

The Gungans are omnivorous
humanoids native to the swamps of
Naboo. Technologically advanced,
they rely mostly on biotech, grow-
ing instead of building their homes
and production facilities.

While their culture is peaceful,
it evolved from a series of long,
bloody clan wars, and Gungans still
admire strength and cunning. Most
communities are devoted to farm-
ing or manufacturing goods that
are then traded to other Gungan
settlements, but they will reluc-
tantly trade with the Humans of
Naboo.



--- Page 28 ---
Personality: Gungans tend to be inquisitive, cautious, and suspicious.

Physical Description: Gungans range from 1.6 to 2 meters tall, with two
eyestalks, floppy ears, and long tongues.

Homeworld: Naboo (page 233).

Languages: Gungans speak, read, and write Gunganese and Basic.

Example Names: Fassa, Jar Jar, Rugor, Tarpals, Toba, Tobler Ceel, Yoss.

Adventurers: Many Gungans leave their underwater cities to explore.
Since the treaty with the Humans of Naboo, some Gungans—perhaps driven
by an impulse to regain the warrior spirit of old—have taken a larger step
into galactic society.

GUNGAN SPECIES TRAITS
Gungans share the following species traits:

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Intelligence, -2 Charisma. Gungans
are agile but aren't particularly witty or astute.

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Gungans have no special bonuses
or penalties due to their size.

Speed: Gungan base speed is 6 squares. They have a swim speed of 4
squares,

Expert Swimmer: A Gungan may choose to reroll any Swim check, but
the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. In addition, a
Gungan may choose to take 10 on Swim checks even when distracted or
threatened.

Hold Breath: Gungans are at home either in air or water. A Gungan can
hold his breath for a number of rounds equal to 25 times his Constitution
score before he needs to make Endurance checks to hold his breath (see the
Endurance skill, page 66).

Lightning Reflexes: Gungans gain a +2 species bonus to their Reflex
Defense, accounting for their uncanny ability to avoid danger.

Low-Light Vision: Gungans ignore concealment (but not total conceal-
ment) from darkness.

Weapon Familiarity: Gungans with the Weapon Proficiency (simple
weapons) feat are proficient with the atlatl and the cesta (see page 121).

Automatic Languages: Basic and Gunganese.

ITHORIANS

Ithorians are tall humanoids whose appearance leads many to refer to them
colloquially as "Hammerheads." Peaceful and gentle, Ithorians are widely
recognized as talented artists, brilliant agricultural engineers, and skilled
diplomats.

Ithorians are perhaps the greatest ecologists in the galaxy, devoting their
technology to preserving the natural beauty of their homeworld’s jungles. They
live in "herds," dwelling in cities that hover above the surface of their planet and
striving to maintain the ecological balance in the "Mother Jungle.”

Ithorians also travel the galaxy in massive “herd ships," masterpieces of envi-
ronmental engineering that carry a perfect replica of their native jungle. Many look
forward to trading for the exotic wares the Ithorians bring from distant planets.

Personality: Ithorians tend to be calm, peaceful, tranquil, and gentle.

Physical Description: Ithorians are humanoid, ranging in height from 1.8
to 2.3 meters tall, with long necks that curl forward and end in dome-shaped
heads. They have two mouths, one on each side of their neck, producing a
stereo effect when they talk.

Homeworld: Ithor (page 231), or a specific herd ship.

Language: Ithorians speak stereophonic Ithorese and Basic.

Example Names: Fandomar, Momaw, Oraltor, Tomla, Trangle, Umwaw.

Adventurers: Ithorians tend to concentrate on peaceful professions. They
love to meet new beings and see new places. Often, wanderlust leads them to
explore the greater galaxy for a time before they eventually return home.

ITHORIAN SPECIES TRAITS
Ithorians share the following species traits:

Ability Modifiers: +2 Wisdom, +2 Charisma, -2 Dexterity. Ithorians are
wise and deliberate thinkers whose
personable nature allows them to
get along well with others, but they
are not agile.

Medium Size: As Medium crea-
tures, Ithorians have no special
bonuses or penalties due to their
size.

Speed: Ithorian base speed is
6 squares.

Iron Will: Ithorians have
above-average willpower and gain
a +2 species bonus to their Will
Defense.

Bellow: As a standard action,
an Ithorian can open all four of its
throats and emit a terrible subsonic

ITHORIAN

H eSeiegvHg

Saas | © |


--- Page 29 ---
i] H#SiagvHD

SHseses

bellow. The Ithorian makes a special attack roll (1d20 + its character level) and
compares the result to the Fortitude Defense of all creatures and unattended
objects in a 6-square cone. A successful hit deals 3d6 points of sonic damage;
if the attack misses, the target takes half damage instead.

Each use of this ability moves the Ithorian -1 step along the condition
track (see Conditions, page 148).

An Ithorian can choose to add more dice (d6s) to the damage it deals with
its bellow, but each additional 1d6 of damage moves the Ithorian another -1
step along the condition track.

Survival Instinet: An Ithorian may choose to reroll any Survival check,
but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse.

Conditional Bonus Feat: Ithorians like to maintain close ties with nature.
An Ithorian with Knowledge (life sciences) as a trained skill gains Skill Focus
(Knowledge [life sciences]) as a bonus feat.

Automatic Languages: Basic and Ithorese.

KEL DOR

The Kel Dor evolved on Dorin, a world with an atmosphere consisting mostly
of helium and a gas that is unique to that world. As such, Kel Dor cannot
breathe on planets with common nitrogen/oxygen atmospheres. Conversely,
Dorin's atmosphere is toxic to most nonnative life (see page 253).

On other planets, Kel Dor dwellings provide their native atmosphere
(stored in large tanks). When outside, Kel Dor must wear breath masks and
goggles. They can neither see nor breathe without these devices. Most Kel
Dor breath masks include vocoders that amplify the wearer's speech; while
their vocal cords function normally in their native atmosphere, Kel Dor must
shout to produce sound in other environments. Their eyesight, however, is
enhanced when they are away from Dorin.

Personality: Calm and kind, the Kel Dor never turn away a being in
need. Still, most believe in quick,
simple justice (even engaging in
vigilantism).

Physical Description: The aver-
age Kel Dor stands between 1.6 and
2 meters tall. Their skin ranges from
peach to deep red, and most have
black eyes.

Homeworld: The technological
planet of Dorin (page 229).

Languages: The Kel Dor speak,
read, and write Kel Dor and Basic.

Example Names: Dorn Tlo, Plo
Koon, Torin Dol.

Adventurers: Kel Dor commonly
become diplomats, bounty hunters,

KEL DOR

and Jedi. Given their altruism and sense of justice, many enter law
enforcement.

KEL DOR SPECIES TRAITS
Kel Dor share the following species traits:

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, +2 Wisdom, -2 Constitution. Kel Dor
are quick and wise, but they suffer from weaker constitutions than other
species.

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Kel Dor have no special bonuses or
penalties due to their size.

Speed: Kel Dor base speed is 6 squares.

Keen Force Sense: Kel Dor may choose to reroll any Use the Force check
made to search their feelings or sense the Force, keeping the better of the two
results.

Low-Light Vision: Kel Dor ignore concealment (but not total conceal-
ment) from darkness.

Special Equipment: Kel Dor suffer limitations outside their native
atmosphere. Without protective goggles, a Kel Dor is considered blind (see
page 254). Without an antiox breath mask, a Kel Dor begins to suffocate
(see Endurance, page 66). A replacement mask costs 2,000 credits (500 on
Dorin), and a year's supply of filters costs 200 credits (50 on Dorin). Kel Dor
characters begin play with these items at no cost.

An antiox breath mask is poisonous to other species (see page 255).

Automatic Languages: Basic and Kel Dor.

MON CALAMARI

Amphibious land-dwellers, the Mon Calamari share their Outer Rim home-
world with the aquatic Quarren. They tend to be soft-spoken but vigorously
defend causes that inspire them. Mon Calamari suffered under great oppres-
sion under the Galactic Empire;
thus, it was one of the first worlds
to declare support for the Rebel
Alliance.

Mon Calamari are widely rec-
ognized for their keen analytical
and organizational abilities, and
they have developed a reputation
as being among the foremost ship
designers in the galaxy. They see
everything they create as a work of
art, not just as a tool or weapon.

Personality: Creative, quiet,
and inquisitive, the Mon Calamari
are dreamers who cherish peace but
aren't afraid to fight for the causes
they believe in.

MON CALAMARI


--- Page 30 ---
Physical Description: The average Mon Calamari stands 1.8 meters tall.
They have high-domed heads, large eyes, and smooth, mottled skin.

Homeworld: The watery world of Mon Calamari (page 232).

Languages: The Mon Calamari speak, read, and write Mon Calamarian
and Basic. They tend to learn Quarrenese as well.

Example Names: Ackbar, Bant, Cilghal, Ibtisam, Jesmin, Oro, Perit,
Rekara.

Adventurers: Mon Calamari seek their dreams among the stars. They
are idealistic and daring, often attaching themselves to causes that seem
hopeless or lost right from the start. They strive to prove that even thinkers
and dreamers can be brave and daring when the need arises.

MON CALAMARI SPECIES TRAITS
Mon Calamari share the following species traits:

Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence, +2 Wisdom, -2 Constitution. Mon
Calamari are bright and prudent, but they have relatively frail physiques.

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Mon Calamari have no special
bonuses or penalties due to their size.

Speed: Mon Calamari base speed is 6 squares. They have a swim speed
of 4 squares.

Breathe Underwater: As amphibious creatures, Mon Calamari can't
drown in water.

Expert Swimmer: A Mon Calamari may choose to reroll any Swim check,
but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. In addition, a
Mon Calamari may choose to take 10 on Swim checks even when distracted
or threatened.

Low-Light Vision: Mon Calamari ignore concealment (but not total
concealment) from darkness.

Conditional Bonus Feat: Keenly perceptive, a Mon Calamari with
Perception as a trained skill gains
Skill Focus (Perception) as a bonus
feat.

Languages: Basic and Mon
Calamarian.

QUARREN

The Quarren hail from the distant
Outer Rim world of Mon Calamari,
sharing the world with the sentient
humanoid species of the same
name. The Mon Calamari live on
the surface of the world, while the
more isolationist Quarren dwell
in oxygen-filled cities in the deep
recesses of the oceans.

QUARREN

Offworld, Quarren generally stay clear galactic politics. Instead, they often
become involved with shadowy occupations such as pirates, smugglers, and
spy networks. Many Quarren blame both the Empire and the Rebels (even
more than the Mon Calamari) for their homeworld's devastation during the
Galactic Civil War.

Personality: Practical and conservative, Quarren tend to hate change
and distrust anyone who displays overt optimism and idealism.

Physical Description: The average Quarren stands 1.8 meters tall. They
have leathery skin and heads that resemble four-tentacled squids, hence the
name "squid head" sometimes used by others.

Homeworld: The watery planet Mon Calamari (page 232).

Languages: Quarren speak, read, and write Quarrenese and Basic. They
tend to learn Mon Calamarian as well.

Example Names: Kelmut, Seggor, Tessek, Tsillin, Vekker, Vuhlg.

Adventurers: Quarren leave their homeworld to escape their dependency
on the Mon Calamari. They tend to seek out the fringes of society, operating
as scoundrels or nobles in criminal organizations.

QUARREN SPECIES TRAITS
Quarren share the following species traits:

Ability Modifiers: +2 Constitution, -2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma. Quarren are
extremely resilient and physically tough, though they tend toward deficien-
cies in wisdom and social graces.

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Quarren have no special bonuses
or penalties due to their size.

Speed: Quarren base speed is 6 squares. They have a swim speed of 4
squares.

Breathe Underwater: As amphibious creatures, Quarren can't drown
in water.

Expert Swimmer: A Quarren may choose to reroll any Swim check, but
the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. In addition, a
Quarren may choose to take 10 on Swim checks even when distracted or
threatened.

Low-Light Vision: Quarren ignore concealment (but not total conceal-
ment) from darkness.

Conditional Bonus Feat: Adept traders and negotiators, Quarren with
Persuasion as a trained skill gains Skill Focus (Persuasion) as a bonus feat.

Automatic Languages: Basic and Quarrenese.

RODIANS

Rodians hail from the Tyrius star system in the Mid Rim, their homeworld
humid and choked with heavy rain forests teeming with dangerous life forms.
In this hostile environment, the Rodians evolved into brutal hunters and killers
to survive. As a result, Rodian culture centers around the concept of "the
hunt.” Their art glorifies violence and the act of stalking prey. The more intel-

| HSaLteavHo

Salise9des



--- Page 31 ---
HaLavHo

SHie9ges

ligent and dangerous a hunter's prey, the more honorable the hunt. Rodians
have numerous annual festivals that exist solely to honor such activities.

Since joining the rest of the galaxy's spacefaring species, the Rodians have
come to view bounty hunting as the most honorable profession in existence,
and many have found great success in this field.

Personality: Rodians tend to be violent, tenacious, and dedicated.

Physical Description: Humanoid, with multifaceted eyes, a tapered snout,
and deep green skin, the average Rodian stands 1.6 meters tall.

Homeworld: The industrial world of Rodia (page 234).

Languages: Rodians speak, read, and write Rodese and Basic, but many
learn to speak Huttese as well.

Example Names: Andoorni, Beedo, Chido, Doda, Greedo, Greeata, Kelko,
Navik, Neela, Neesh, Wald.

Adventurers: Rodian adventurers leave their homeworld to improve
their skills, hoping to one day return and claim the title of Hunt Master. To
this end, they take on roles that allow them to flex their hunting skills and
increase their battle prowess, most commonly working as bounty hunters
or mercenaries.

RODIAN SPECIES TRAITS
Rodians share the following species traits:

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma. Rodians are
quick and well coordinated but often act before thinking things through and
are often rude and try to bully others.

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Rodians have no special bonuses or
penalties due to their size.

Speed: Rodian base speed is 6 squares.

Heightened Awareness: A Rodian may choose to reroll any Perception
check, but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse.

Low-Light Vision: Rodians
ignore concealment (but not total
concealment) from darkness.

Conditional Bonus Feat: Rodi-
ans are taught how to track and
survive in the wilderness of Rodia
from a very young age. A Rodian
with Survival as a trained skill
gains Skill Focus (Survival) as a
bonus feat.

Automatic Languages: Basic
and Rodese.

RODIAN

SULLUSTANS

To survive the natural perils of their harsh, voleanic homeworld, the Sullustans
evolved in the planet's numerous caves. They prefer to dwell underground,
constructing highly advanced cities of such great beauty that wealthy
sightseers come from all over the galaxy to visit them. Living underground
helped the Sullustans to develop acute senses, and they are renowned for
their navigational and piloting skills.

This friendly, gregarious species enjoys interacting with unique, unusual,
and interesting beings. When Old Republic scouts first visited their home-
world, the Sullustans quickly embraced galactic civilization. The Sullustan
manufacturing company SoroSuub is one of the largest non-Human-owned
interstellar corporations in the galaxy. In fact, the company is so powerful
that it has become the official government of Sullust, and more than half of
the planet's population is on its payroll.

Personality: Sullustans tend to be pragmatic, pleasant, and fond of
practical jokes.

Physical Description: Humanoid with large round eyes, big ears, and
jowls, the average Sullustan stands 1.5 meters tall.

Homeworld: The volcanic, technological world Sullust (page 235).

Languages: Sullustans speak, read, and write Sullustese and Basic.

Example Names: Aril Nunb, Dlilr Nep, Nien Nunb, Sian Tevv, Syub
Snunb.

Adventurers: Sullustan adventurers enjoy exploring the galaxy, conduct-
ing business, and pulling pranks to see how others react. They are inquisitive
and love to discover things through personal experience, sometimes being
a bit reckless.

SULLUSTAN SPECIES TRAITS
Sullustans share the following species traits:

Ability Modifiers: +2 Dexter-
ity, -2 Constitution. Sullustans are
quick, agile, and good with ranged
weapons, but they are not as hardy
as other species.

Medium Size: As Medium crea-
tures, Sullustans have no special
bonuses or penalties due to their
size.

Speed: Sullustan base speed is
6 squares.

Darkvision: Sullustans ignore
concealment (including total con-
cealment) from darkness. However,
they cannot perceive colors in total
darkness.

SULLUSTAN


--- Page 32 ---
Expert Climber: Sullustans are adept at climbing in their underground
homes. A Sullustan may choose to take 10 on Climb checks even when
distracted or threatened.

Heightened Awareness: A Sullustan may choose to reroll any Perception
check, but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse.

Automatic Languages: Basic and Sullustese.

TRANDOSHANS

The reptilian Trandoshans are known for their great strength and warlike
natures. Many of these beings dedicate themselves to martial training, and
some follow the path of the hunter on their native world. A few have even
become renowned (or infamous) bounty hunters in galactic society. Tran-
doshans have a long-standing enmity with Wookiees, and the two species
have fought often over the centuries.

Trandoshans (who refer to themselves as "T'doshok") have supersensitive
eyes that can see into the infrared range. They shed their skin several times
in the span of their lives and can even regenerate lost limbs, but their clawed
hands have difficulty with fine manipulation of objects.

Personality: Violent, brutal, and driven, Trandoshans love to compete but
can show compassion and mercy as the situation warrants.

Physical Description: Trandoshans range from 1.8 to 2.1 meters tall.
Their scaly hides offer additional defense against attacks.

Homeworld: Trandosha (page 237).

Language: Trandoshans speak, read, and write Dosh and Basic.

Example Names: Bossk, Fusset, Krussk, Ssuurg, Tusserk.

Adventurers: A Trandoshan adventurer craves the thrill of battle. Some
leave Dosha to become bodyguards or mercenaries. Others set out to find
new places to hunt and explore. A few use their warrior traditions to become
soldiers, some even developing into bounty hunters as time goes by.

TRANDOSHAN
SPECIES
TRAITS

Trandoshans share the following
species traits:

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength,
-2 Dexterity. Trandoshans are pow-
erful but lack agility.

Medium Size: As Medium crea-
tures, Trandoshans have no special
bonuses or penalties due to their
size,

Speed: Trandoshan base speed
is 6 squares.

TRANDOSHAN

Darkvision: Trandoshans ignore concealment (including total con-
cealment) from darkness. However, they cannot perceive colors in total
darkness.

Limb Regeneration: A Trandoshan regrows a lost limb in 1d10 days. At
the end of that time, all persistent penalties associated with the loss of the
limb are removed.

Natural Armor: Trandoshans have thick scales that provide a +1 natural
armor bonus to their Reflex Defense. A natural armor bonus stacks with an
armor bonus.

Bonus Feat: Rugged and resilient, Trandoshans gain Toughness as a
bonus feat.

Automatic Languages: Basic and Dosh.

TWI'LleKS

From the dry, rocky world of Ryloth, Twi'leks have made a place for themselves
along the galactic rim. These tall, thin humanoids include a variety of distinct
subraces, but are all instantly recognizable by the tentacular “head-tails"
(called /ekku) that protrude from the backs of their heads.

Sly, calculating beings, Twi'leks prefer to avoid trouble and stick to the
shadows until an opportunity to act without undue danger to themselves
presents itself. Their entrepreneurial spirit frequently leads them to positions
of influence, and Twi'lek corporate executives and ambassadors are no less
common than unscrupulous Twi'lek freighter captains and crime lords.

Personality: Twi'leks are calculating, pragmatic, and charismatic people.
Generally, they try to avoid being swept up in open conflict, preferring
instead to duck into the shadows where they can observe, plan, and prepare
to profit from the outcome.

Physical Description: Humanoids with long head-tails, the average
Twi'lek stands between 1.6 and 2 meters tall. Skin tones include white,
green, blue, red, and orange, among
others.

Homeworld: Twi'leks come from
the planet Ryloth (page 234).

Languages: Twi'leks speak,
read, and write Ryl and Basic. They
can also communicate with one
another using their lekku (a form
of sign language). Some also learn
Huttese.

Example Names: Bib Fortuna,
Deel Surool, Firith Olan, Koyi Komad,
Lyn Me, Oola, Tott Doneeta.

Twi'leK

ii Slaves

Sqisases



--- Page 33 ---
Be
Siege s

HSLlarRo

Adventurers: Twi'lek adventurers generally prefer to work behind the
scenes, letting others stand in the full light of day. Many wind up in busi-
ness (whether legal or illegal), performing as entertainers, or even serving
as diplomats.

TWI'LEK SPECIES TRAITS
Twi'leks share the following species traits:

Ability Modifiers: +2 Charisma, -2 Wisdom. Twi'leks make convincing
diplomats but are relatively weak-willed.

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Twi'leks have no special bonuses or
penalties due to their size.

Speed: Twi'lek base speed is 6 squares.

Deceptive: Naturally gifted at manipulation, a Twi'lek may choose to
reroll any Deception check, but the result of the reroll must be accepted
even if it is worse.

Great Fortitude: Twi'leks gain a +2 species bonus to their Fortitude
Defense. Twi'leks have great health with a natural resistance to toxins and
illness.

Low-Light Vision: Twi'leks ignore concealment (but not total conceal-
ment) from darkness.

Automatic Languages: Basic and RyI.

WOOKIEES
Wookiees are widely recognized as one of the strongest and fiercest intel-
ligent species in the galaxy. Wookiees have many customs and traditions
that revolve around honor and loyalty, including the special bond called the
honor family and the sacred pledge called the life debt. A Wookiee never uses
his or her climbing claws in combat; doing this is considered dishonorable
and a sign of madness.

Personality: Wookiees tend to be honorable, rash, loyal, and
short-tempered.

Physical Description: Wookiees are large furry bipeds ranging in height
from 2 to 2.3 meters.

Homeworld: The forest world of Kashyyyk (page 232).

Language: Wookiees speak Shyriiwook, consisting of complex grunts and
growls. They understand Basic but lack the ability to speak it.

Example Names: Chewbacca, Gorwooken, Groznik, Low-bacca, Ralrra,
Rorworr, Salporin.

Adventurers: Wookiee adventurers usually start out as wanderers or
explorers, but some find this path by forming an honor family with (or owing
a life debt to) other adventures.

WOOKIEE SPECIES TRAITS
Wookiees share the following species traits:

Ability Modifiers: +4 Strength, +2 Constitution, -2 Dexterity, -2
Wisdom, -2 Charisma. Wookiees are powerful and hardy, but they aren't

agile, tend to be impulsive, and have
little patience for diplomacy.

Medium Size: As Medium crea-
tures, Wookiees have no special
bonuses or penalties due to their
size.

Speed: Wookiee base speed is
6 squares.

Extraordinary Recuperation:
A Wookiee regains hit points at
double the normal rate (see Natural
Healing, page 148).

Rage: Once per day, a Wook-
iee can fly into a rage as a swift
action. While raging, the Wookiee
temporarily gains a +2 rage bonus
on melee attack rolls and melee
damage rolls but cannot use skills that require patience and concentration,
such as Mechanics, Stealth, or Use the Force.

A fit of rage lasts for a number of rounds equal to 5 + the Wookiee's
Constitution modifier. At the end of its rage, a Wookiee moves -1 persistent
step along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). The penalties
imposed by this condition persist until the Wookiee takes at least 10 minutes
to recuperate, during which time the Wookiee can't engage in any strenu-
ous activity.

Weapon Familiarity: Wookiees with the Weapon Proficiency (rifles) feat
are proficient with the bowcaster.

Skills: Wookiees are great climbers and may choose to take 10 on
Climb checks even when distracted or threatened. Known to pull the ears
off gundarks, they may choose to
reroll any Persuasion check made
to intimidate others, but the result
of the reroll must be accepted even
if it is worse.

Automatic Languages: Basic
(cannot speak) and Shyriiwook.

ZABRAK

The Zabrak are an early spacefar-
ing race distinguished by patterns
of vestigial horns on their heads.
Zabrak hail from many worlds
and have been spacefarers for so
long that they define themselves
and each other according to their
colony of origin.

ZABRAK


--- Page 34 ---
The harshness of Iridonia, their homeworld, forged in the Zabrak an
iron will to survive. Driven to escape their world, they sought to obtain the
knowledge of space flight. When Duros scouts began exploring the Mid Rim
Territories, they encountered Zabrak in eight sovereign colonies in five dif-
ferent systems. Though subjugated under the harsh rule of the Empire, the
Zabrak colonies eventually regained their independence.

Zabrak possess a great amount of confidence, and they believe that there
is nothing they can't accomplish. While this innate attitude could lead to
feelings of superiority, most Zabrak don't look down on others. They believe
inthemselves and are proud and strong, but they rarely project any negativity
toward those of other species.

Personality: Zabrak tend to be dedicated, intense, and focused, some-
times appearing obsessive and single-minded to other species.

Physical Description: Humanoid, distinguished by patterns of vestigial
horns atop their heads. The average Zabrak stands 1.8 meters tall.

Homeworld: lridonia (page 231) or one of eight colonies in the Mid Rim
region of space.

Language: Zabrak speak, read, and write Zabrak and Basic.

Example Names: Aagh Odok, Eeth Koth, Kooth Aan.

Adventurers: Zabrak adventurers love to explore the galaxy. No chal-
lenge is too big to deter a Zabrak. They range from scoundrels on distant
colony worlds, to noble diplomats and merchants, to scouts, soldiers, and
even Jedi.

ZABRAK SPECIES TRAITS
Zabrak share the following species traits:

Ability Modifiers: Zabrak have no ability score adjustments.

Medium Size: As Medium creatures, Zabrak have no special bonuses or
penalties due to their size.

Speed: Zabrak base speed is 6 squares.

Heightened Awareness: Having strong survival instincts and quick reac-
tions, a Zabrak may choose to reroll any Perception check, but the result of
the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse.

Superior Defenses: Adapted to a very tough and trying environment,
Zabrak gain a +1 species bonus to all of their defenses.

Automatic Languages: Basic and Zabrak.

Salseses



--- Page 35 ---
— CHAPTER III
MeEROIC CLASSES

secre



--- Page 36 ---
Star Wars heroes seek credits, glory, justice, fame, influence, and knowledge,
among other goals. Some of these goals are honorable, some base. Each
character chooses a different way to achieve these goals, from brutal combat
power to subtle skills to mastery of the Force. Some adventurers prevail and
grow in experience, wealth, and power. Others die.

A character class is the frame upon which you build your hero. It isn't
meant to be rigid or confining. Instead, a class provides a starting point
from which you can develop in any direction you see fit. Don't think of a
class as restrictive; instead, a class is defining. When you choose a class
for your character, you're laying the foundation of a concept that will grow
and expand as you play. A class provides structure. How you develop your
character is entirely up to you. You get to choose talents and feats as you
| advance—and you can take levels in other classes as you go along if that
better serves the concept at the core of your hero.

CHOOSING
A HEROIC CLASS

Five basic classes, known as heroic classes, are available in the Star Wars
Roleplaying Game. Characters with levels in heroic classes are called heroic
characters, or heroes. Unlike nonheroic supporting characters, heroic char-
acters have many special abilities that make them extraordinary.

At 1st level, you must choose a heroic class for your character. The five
heroic classes are:

Jedi: The Jedi are the guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy. They
learn to master the Force, and their trademark weapon is the lightsaber.

Noble: The noble is a shrewd bargainer and negotiator who inspires
confidence and makes a great leader.

Scoundrel: The scoundrel is a tricky, skillful rogue who succeeds by
stealth instead of brute force.

Scout: The scout is a cunning, skilled explorer trained to operate in the
vast wilderness of space and backwater worlds.

Soldier: A warrior with exceptional combat capability and unequaled
skill with weapons.

THE MULTICLASS CHARACTER

As your character advances in level, he or she may add new classes. Adding
a new Class gives the character a broader range of abilities, but all advance-
ment in the new class is at the expense of advancement in the character's
other class or classes. A noble, for example, might become a noble/soldier.
Adding the soldier class would give her proficiency in more weapons, a better
Fortitude Defense, and so on, but it would also mean that she doesn't gain
new noble talents and thus is not as powerful a noble as she otherwise would
have become. Rules for creating and advancing multiclass characters can be
found at the end of this chapter.

i! esiavwnyo



--- Page 37 ---
1) SSteavHga

Ssssevi1g) De8le-)

CLASS AND
LEVEL BONUSES

An attack roll is a combination of three numbers, each representing a dif-
ferent factor: a random factor (the number you roll on the d20), a number
representing the character's innate abilities (the ability modifier), and a
bonus representing the character's experience and training. This third factor
depends on the character's class and level. Each class table summarizes the
figures for this third factor.

BASE ATTACK BONUS
Check the table for your character's class. Your character's base attack
bonus applies to all attack rolls. Use the bonus that corresponds to the
character's class level.

If a character has more than one class, add the base attack bonuses for
each class together to determine the character's base attack bonus.

DAMAGE BONUS
Your character deals extra damage on melee and ranged attacks equal to
one-half her character level, rounded down. A 1st-level character, therefore,
has a damage bonus of +0.

For example, a 4th-level soldier armed with a heavy blaster deals 3d8+2
points of damage with the weapon. A 12th-level soldier armed with the exact
same weapon deals 3d8+6 points of damage.

DEFENSES
Your character has three defense scores. Defenses are discussed fully on
page 145.

Reflex Defense: 10 + your heroic level or armor bonus + Dexterity modi-
fier + class bonus + natural armor bonus (if any) + size modifier

Fortitude Defense: 10 + your heroic level + Constitution modifier + class
bonus + equipment bonus

Will Defense: 10 + your heroic level + Wisdom modifier + class bonus

Heroic Level

Your heroic level is the sum of all levels you have in heroic classes (Jedi,
noble, scoundrel, scout, soldier) and prestige classes (see Chapter 12). It
does not include levels in the nonheroic character class (see page 277)
or beast class (see page 273). For example, if you were a scout 6/soldier
2, you would have a heroic level of 8, adding that number to all of your
defense scores.

Class Bonuses to Defenses
When you take your first level in a heroic class, you gain class bonuses on
two or more defenses, as shown below:

CLASS CLASS BONUSES TO DEFENSES

Jedi +1 Reflex Defense, +1 Fortitude Defense, +1 Will Defense
Noble +1 Reflex Defense, +2 Will Defense

Scoundrel +2 Reflex Defense, +1 Will Defense

Scout +2 Reflex Defense, +1 Fortitude Defense

Soldier +1 Reflex Defense, +2 Fortitude Defense

Class bonuses do not stack; you only apply the best bonus from all your
classes to each defense score. Continuing the previous example, if you were a
scout 6/soldier 2, you would have a +2 class bonus to your Fortitude Defense
(this is the better bonus, granted by being a soldier) and a +2 class bonus to
your Reflex Defense (also the better bonus, granted by being a scout). If you
later added a level of noble, you would also gain a +2 class bonus to your
Will Defense.

LEVEL-DEPENDENT
BENEFITS

In addition to attack bonuses and saving throw bonuses, all characters gain
other benefits from advancing in level. Table 3-1: Experience and Level-
Dependent Benefits summarizes these additional benefits.

XP: This column shows the experience point total needed to achieve
a given character level. For multiclass characters, XP determines overall
character level, not individual class levels.

Feats: This column indicates the levels at which a character gains feats.
These feats are in addition to any bonus feats granted in the class descrip-
tions and the bonus feat granted to Humans at 1st level.

Ability Increases: This column indicates the levels at which a character
gains ability score increases. Upon gaining 4th, 8th, 12th, 16th, and 20th
level, a character increases two of his or her ability scores by 1 point each.
The player chooses which two ability scores to improve. A player cannot apply
both ability increases to a single ability score, and the ability improvements
are permanent.


--- Page 38 ---
ABILITY
INCREASES

CHARACTER

LEVEL XP FEATS

2nd 1,000 ee =

4th 6,000 = Ist, 2nd

6th 15,000 3rd -

8th 28,000 - 3rd, 4th

10th 45,000 = =

12th 66,000 5th 5th, 6th

14th 91,000 = =

16th 120,000 = 7th, 8th

18th 153,000 7th _

20th 190,000 = 9th, 10th

For example, a noble with a starting Dexterity of 13 and a starting Cha-
risma of 15 might improve to Dex 14 and Cha 16 at 4th level. At 8th level, the
same character might improve Charisma again (from 16 to 17) and increase
any one of the other five abilities by 1 as well.

Ability score increases are retroactive. For example, if you increase your
Intelligence score from 13 to 14, you immediately gain an additional trained
skill chosen from your class skills and an additional language. Similarly, if a
Jedi with two instances of the Force Training feat increased his Wisdom from
13 to 14, he would gain two Force powers (for a total of six).

Multiclass Characters: For multiclass characters, ability increases are
gained according to overall character level, not class level. Thus, a 3rd-level
noble/1st-level soldier is a 4th-level character overall and eligible for her
first two ability score boosts.

CLASS DESCRIPTIONS

The rest of this chapter, up to the section on multiclass characters, describes
each class. These descriptions are general. Individual members of a class may
differ in their attitudes, outlooks, and other aspects.

GAME RULE INFORMATION
Game rule information follows the general class description. Not all of the
following categories apply to every class.

ABILITIES

This entry tells you which abilities are most important for a character of
that class. Players can "play against type,” but a typical character of a class
puts his or her highest ability scores where they'll do the most good. (Or, in
game-world terms, the character is attracted to the class that most suits
his or her talents, or for which he or she is best qualified.)

HiT POINTS
A 1st-level heroic character begins play with a certain number of hit points
determined by his or her class:

CLASS STARTING HIT POINTS
Noble, scoundrel 18 + Constitution modifier
Scout 24 + Constitution modifier

Jedi, soldier 30 + Constitution modifier

A character's hit points increase each time he or she gains a level. The
type of die rolled depends on the class in which the level is gained, as shown
below:

CLASS HIT POINTS/LEVEL

Noble, scoundrel 1d6 + Constitution modifier
Scout 1d8 + Constitution modifier
Jedi, soldier 1d10 + Constitution modifier

The character always gets at least 1 hit point with each new level, regard-
less of the player's die roll and the character's Constitution modifier.

CLASS TABLE
This table details how a character improves as he or she gains levels. Class
tables include the following information:

Level: The character's level in the class.



--- Page 39 ---
0
rT] |
> |
ai |
af

Base Attack Bonus: The character's base attack bonus. Apply this bonus
to the character's attack rolls and damage rolls.

Class Features: Level-dependent class abilities, alternating between
talents and bonus feats.

Class Skills

Every class has a list of class skills. Once a player selects a class for his
character, he chooses a number of trained skills from the character's list
of class skills, The exact number of trained skills a player can choose at 1st
level depends on the character's class:

CLASS NUMBER OF TRAINED SKILLS
Jedi 2 + Intelligence modifier
Noble 6 + Intelligence modifier
Scoundrel 4 + Intelligence modifier
Scout 5 + Intelligence modifier
Soldier 3 + Intelligence modifier

Put another way, a character's trained skills represent a subset of that
character's class skills. Every time a character picks up a new class, his list
of class skills grows to include those of the new class, but the only way
to gain new trained skills after 1st level is to take the Skill Training feat
(page 88).

For example, a noble gets 6 trained skills at 1st level. If she has a +1 Intel-
ligence modifier, her total becomes 7 trained skills. The noble then selects 7
skills from her list of class skills, which then become trained skills for her.

For more information on trained skills, see Chapter 4: Skills.

CLASS FEATURES

This entry details special characteristics of the class, including starting feats
that the character gets for free at 1st level, special talents uniquely flavored
to the class, and bonus feats.

wJEDI

Jedi combine physical training with mastery of the Force. Jedi concentrate
on battle prowess, defense, and lightsaber training. Additionally, they are
ambassadors of the Jedi order, protecting the Republic from all dangers. Few
are strong enough in the Force and have the devotion to walk the Jedi's path,
but those few are awarded with a powerful ally. They walk in a larger world
than those who neither feel nor heed the Force.

ExPLoITs

All Jedi journey into the galaxy at large to further their own knowledge and
to help those in need. They take their responsibility seriously, considering
even mundane missions to be personal tests. Most Jedi follow the light side,
but some become darksiders and use the Force for evil or selfish intent.

Those imbued with the light side refrain from using the Force for every
task, preferring to find other solutions and save the Force for when it is
truly needed. Those who succumb to the dark side use every advantage at
their disposal, wielding the Force to solve problems as a soldier would use a
blaster to destroy a stingfly.

BASE ATTACK
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES

2nd +2 Bonus feat

4th +4 Bonus feat

6th +6 Bonus feat

8th +8 Bonus feat

10th +10 Bonus feat

12th +12 Bonus feat

14th +14 Bonus feat

16th +16 Bonus feat

18th +18 Bonus feat

20th +20 Bonus feat

Class Skills (trained in 2 + Int modifier): Acrobatics, Endurance, Initiative,
Knowledge (all skills, taken individually), Perception, Pilot, Use the Force

V


--- Page 40 ---
CHARACTERISTICS Force Points

The Jedi's strength flows from the Force, granting her special powers. This Jedi gain a number of Force Points equal to 5 + one-half their character level
character often masters the ability to feel the living Force in the world (rounded down) at 1st level and every time they gain a new level in this class.
within her. Charisma and Wisdom are the most important abilities fora Jedi, Any Force Points left over from previous levels are lost.

although any of the other abilities are nearly as important.
CLASS FEATURES

BACKGROUND All of the following are features of the Jedi class.
A Jedi typically starts out as a Padawan learner attached to a Jedi
Master. (Prior to 1st level, the character trained as a student
with the Jedi Council. She begins her heroic career at 1st
level when she is selected as a Padawan learner.) The Jedi has
a genuine desire to use the Force to help the people of the
galaxy. A Jedi has a deep connection to her mentor and the
Jedi order but often operates with only tangential contact with
either master or order.

Still, not all who study the Jedi arts are actually members
of the Jedi order. During the Old Sith Wars (thousands of
years before the Battle of Yavin), many Sith acolytes and
initiates are often members of this class before becoming
a Sith apprentice under a particular Sith Lord (see page
224). This class is also common among other Force
traditions with strong ties to the Jedi arts, such as the
Jensaarai (see page 106).

Defense Bonuses
At 1st level, you gain a +1 class bonus to your Fortitude Defense,
Reflex Defense, and Will Defense.

Lightsaber

You start play with a lightsaber provided by your
Master. Later, you can build your own lightsaber
(see Build Lightsaber, below).

Starting Feats

At 1st level, you gain the following bonus feats:
Force Sensitivity
Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers)
Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons)

Talents

At 1st level and every odd-numbered level there-

after (3rd, 5th, 7th, etc.), you select a talent from

any of the following talent trees. You may choose a

talent from any tree you wish, but you must meet the
prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent
can be selected more than once unless expressly

indicated.

EXAMPLES OF JEDI IN
STAR WARS

Luke Skywalker (after training under Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda),
Obi-Wan Kenobi, Anakin Skywalker, Mace Windu, Bastila Shan,
Quinlan Vos.

GAME RULE
INFORMATION

Jedi have the following game statistics. JEDI CONSULAR TALENT TREE

Jedi that follow the path of the consular
are skilled negotiators and talented
ambassadors. You prefer to use the

strength of your words and the
wisdom that the Force provides to

solve conflicts.

Adept Negotiator: As a

standard action, you can

weaken the resolve of one
enemy with your words.
The target must have an
Intelligence of 3 or higher,
and it must be able to see,

Abilities

A Jedi should be gifted in all abilities, but Wisdom
and Charisma are most important. Strength and
Dexterity are also useful.

Hit Points
Jedi begin play at 1st level with a number
of hit points equal to 30 + their Con-
stitution modifier. At each level
after 1st, Jedi gain 1d10 hit points
+ their Constitution modifier.

SIA-LAN WEZZ, FEMALE HUMAN JEDI

0
I
>
v
| 2
iW
a

SsssyvVve seus

eS



--- Page 41 ---
nl |
a
>
UH
a) |
40
a|)

0

SessseVviIg He89F)

eS)

hear, and understand you. Make a Persuasion check; if the result equals or
exceeds the target's Will Defense, it moves -1 step along the condition track
(see Conditions, page 148). The target gets a +5 bonus to its Will Defense
if it is highter level than you. If the target reaches the end of the track, it
does not fall unconscious; instead, it cannot attack you or your allies for the
remainder of the encounter unless you or one of your allies attacks it or one
of its allies first. This is a mind-affecting effect.

Force Persuasion: You can use your Use the Force check modifier instead
of your Persuasion check modifier when making Persuasion checks. You are
considered trained in the Persuasion skill for purposes of using this talent.
If you are entitled to a Persuasion check reroll, you may reroll your Use the
Force check instead (subject to the same circumstances and limitations).

Prerequisite: Adept Negotiator.

Master Negotiator: If you successfully use the Adept Negotiator talent
(see above), your target moves an additional -1 step along the condition
track (-2 steps total). This is a mind-affecting effect.

Prerequisite: Adept Negotiator.

Skilled Advisor: You can spend a full-round action advising an ally,
thereby granting her a +5 bonus on her next skill check. If you spend a
Force Point, the bonus increases to +10. The target must be able (and will-
ing) to hear and understand your advice. You cannot advise yourself. This is
a mind-affecting effect.

JEDI GUARDIAN TALENT TREE
Jedi that follow the path of the guardian are more combat-oriented than
other Jedi, honing their skills to become deadly combatants.

Acrobatic Recovery: If an effect causes you to fall prone, you can make
a DC 20 Acrobatics check to remain on your feet.

Battle Meditation: The Jedi technique known as Battle Meditation
allows you and your allies to work together seamlessly and with a level of
precision that can only come from the Force. As a full-round action, you
can spend a Force Point to give you and all allies within 6 squares of you a
+1 insight bonus on attack rolls that lasts until the end of the encounter.
This bonus does not extend to allies outside the range of the effect, even
if they move within 6 squares of you later on. Allies who benefit from the
Battle Meditation must remain within 6 squares of you to retain the insight
bonus, and they lose it if you are knocked unconscious or killed. This is a
mind-affecting effect.

Elusive Target: When fighting an opponent or multiple opponents in
melee, other opponents attempting to target you with ranged attacks take
a -5 penalty. This penalty is in addition to the normal -5 penalty for firing
into melee (see Shooting or Throwing into a Melee, page 161), making the
penalty to target you -10.

Force Intuition: You can use your Use the Force check modifier instead
of your Initiative modifier when making Initiative checks. You are considered
trained in the Initiative skill for purposes of using this talent. If you are
entitled to an Initiative check reroll, you may reroll your Use the Force check
instead (subject to the same circumstances and limitations).

Resilience: You can spend a Force Point as a swift action to move +2
steps along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148).

JEDI SENTINEL TALENT TREE

The Jedi that follow the path of the sentinel are the true enemies of the dark
side, hunting down evil and stopping the spread of darkness wherever they
go. You are a master of subtlety and difficult to tempt with the dark side,
even when constantly confronted with its power.

Clear Mind: You may reroll any opposed Use the Force check made to
avoid being detected by other Force-users. You must take the result of the
reroll, even if it is worse.

Dark Side Sense: Jedi following the path of the sentinel become excep-
tionally talented at rooting out evil. You may reroll any Use the Force check
made to sense the presence and relative location of characters with a Dark
Side Score of 1 or higher. You must take the result of the reroll, even if it is
worse.

Dark Side Scourge: Against creatures with a Dark Side Score of 1 or
higher, you deal extra damage on melee attacks equal to your Charisma
bonus (minimum +1).

Prerequisite: Dark Side Sense.

Force Haze: You can spend a Force Point as a standard action to create a
“haze" that hides you and your allies from the perceptions of others. You can
hide a number of creatures in line of sight equal to your class level. Make a Use
the Force check and compare the result to the Will Defense of any opponent
that moves into line of sight of any creature hidden by your Force haze. If

a)


--- Page 42 ---
VY

“My ALLY !1S
THE FORCE, AND
a& POWERFUL ALLY

iT is."

—- wWEeDI MASTER YODA

your check result beats the opponent's Will Defense, all hidden creatures are
treated as if they had total concealment against that opponent.

The Force haze lasts up to 1 minute but is dismissed instantly if anyone
hidden by the Force haze makes an attack.

Prerequisite: Clear Mind.

Resist the Dark Side: You gain a +5 Force bonus to all Defense scores
against Force powers with the [dark side] descriptor and Force powers
originating from any dark Force-user (that is, any Force-user whose Dark
Side Score equals his Wisdom score).

Prerequisite: Dark Side Sense.

LIGHTSABER COMBAT TALENT TREE

The lightsaber is the chosen weapon of the Jedi. Not as clumsy or random as
a blaster, the lightsaber is an elegant weapon for a more civilized combatant.
The following talents allow you to improve your prowess with a lightsaber.

Block: As a reaction, you may negate a melee attack by making a suc-
cessful Use the Force check. The DC of the skill check is equal to the result
of the attack roll you wish to negate, and you take a cumulative -5 penalty
on your Use the Force check for every time you have used Block or Deflect
since the beginning of your last turn. You must have a lightsaber drawn
and ignited to use this talent, and you must be aware of the attack and not
flat-footed.

Deflect: As a reaction, you may negate a ranged attack by making a suc-
cessful Use the Force check. The DC of the skill check is equal to the result of
the attack roll you wish to negate, and you take a cumulative -5 penalty on
your Use the Force check for every time you have used Block or Deflect since
the beginning of your last turn. You must have a lightsaber drawn and ignited
to use this talent, and you must be aware of the attack and not flat-footed.

You can use this talent to deflect some of the barrage of shots fired
from a ranged weapon set on autofire. If you succeed on the Use the Force
check, you take half damage if the autofire attack hits and no damage if the
autofire attack misses. This talent has no effect on other area attacks (such
as grenades, missiles, and flamethrowers).

This talent cannot be used to negate attacks made by Colossal (frig-
ate) or larger-size vehicles unless the attack is made with a point-defense
weapon.

Lightsaber Defense: As a swift action, you can use your lightsaber to
parry your opponents’ attacks, gaining a +1 deflection bonus to your Reflex
Defense until the start of your next turn. You must have a lightsaber drawn
and ignited to use this talent, and you don't gain the deflection bonus if you
are flat-footed or otherwise unaware of the incoming attack.

You can take this talent multiple times; each time you take this talent,
the deflection bonus increases by +1 (maximum +3).

Weapon Specialization (lightsabers): You gain a +2 bonus on melee
damage rolls with lightsabers.

Prerequisite: Weapon Focus (lightsabers) feat (see page 89).

Lightsaber Throw: You can hurl a lightsaber as a standard action, treat-
ing it as a thrown weapon. You are considered proficient with the thrown
lightsaber, and you apply the normal range penalties to the attack roll (see
Table 8-5: Range Penalties). The thrown lightsaber deals normal weapon
damage if it hits.

If your target is no more than 6 squares away, you can pull your light-
saber back to your hand as a swift action by making a DC 20 Use the Force
check.

Redirect Shot: This talent allows you to redirect a deflected blaster bolt
along a specific trajectory so that it damages another creature or object in
its path. Once per round when you successfully deflect a blaster bolt, you can
make an immediate ranged attack against another target with which you have
line of sight. Apply the normal range penalties to the attack roll (see Table 8-5:
Range Penalties), not counting the distance the bolt traveled to reach you. If
the attack succeeds, it deals normal weapon damage to the target.

Only single blaster bolts can be redirected in this manner. Barrages from
autofire weapons and other types of projectiles can't be redirected.

Prerequisites: Deflect, base attack bonus +5.

Build Lightsaber
At 7th level and beyond, you can build your own lightsaber (see the Building
a Lightsaber sidebar).

Bonus Feats

At each even-numbered level (2nd, 4th, 6th, etc.), you gain a bonus feat.
This feat must be selected from the following list, and you must meet any
prerequisites for that feat.

Acrobatic Strike, Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Double Attack, Dual
Weapon Mastery |, Dual Weapon Mastery II, Dual Weapon Mastery Ill, Great
Cleave, Improved Charge, Improved Disarm, Martial Arts I, Martial Arts Il, Martial
Arts Ill, Melee Defense, Mobility, Quick Draw, Power Attack, Powerful Charge,
Rapid Strike, Running Attack, Skill Focus, Skill Training, Strong in the Force,
Triple Attack, Triple Crit, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (lightsabers).

CREDITS
A \st-level Jedi starts play with 3d4 x 100 credits.

it SSidvHoa

Saessevie Heuser)



--- Page 43 ---
eee

il SSidvHga

Sessvi7ve sievls-)

NosLrle EXAMPLES OF NOBLES IN
STAR WARS
Leia Organa, Padmé Amidala, Bail Organa, Talon Karrde, Jabba the
Hutt, Chancellor Valorum, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine.

Members of the noble class use their intelligence and natural cha-
risma to make their way in the galaxy. From true royalty to elected
officials, military commanders to crime lords, traders, merchants,
ambassadors, holovid stars, and influential corporate magnates,
character types who appear in the noble class are varied and numer-
ous. Some bring honor to the name. Others are sly, treacherous, and
dishonorable to the core. With a winning smile, a golden tongue, a
powerful message, or a knack for making compromises, the noble
commands respect, makes friends, and inevitably influences
people.

GAME RULE INFORMATION
Nobles have the following game statistics.

Abilities
Charisma is undoubtedly a noble's most important abil-
ity score, as the noble's skill at interacting with others
and projecting a sense of confidence are crucial for
his or her success. Wisdom and Intelligence form
the basis of other important skills, so these ability
scores are also significant.

ExPLoiTs

Most nobles wind up in dangerous situations because
of something they believe in or because their job calls
for it. Others hope to use their negotiating talents to
navigate a course through the troubles around them,
or seek to find profit in the troubles of others. Whatever
their initial motivations, nobles usually wind up taking to
a cause and a goal that sustains them through the roughest
missions. An adventuring noble might be a senator's aide, a free
trader, a diplomat, a true prince or princess, or an outlaw's lieu-
tenant. Nobles often feel responsible for others, though some
consider themselves to be better than those around them.

Hit Points
Nobles begin play at 1st level with a number of hit
points equal to 18 + their Constitution modifier. At
each level after 1st, nobles gain 1d6 hit points + their
Constitution modifier.

Force Points

Nobles gain a number of Force Points equal to 5 + one-half
their character level (rounded down) at 1st level and every time
they gain a new level in this class. Any Force Points left over from

CHARACTERISTICS :
previous levels are lost.

The noble fosters feelings of good will and honesty, or at least the
illusion of such, to succeed. Where other classes shoot first, the
noble starts out asking questions and hopes to finish by negotiating
a deal. The noble believes she can be more effective with words and
deeds than with violence, though some draw a blaster when push
comes to shove. The noble is more comfortable in civilized regions
of space, where law and order have some meaning. Of all the classes,
nobles have the best diplomatic and bargaining skills. They're good
talkers, negotiators, and bluffers. They have a knack for inspiring
others, and they make good leaders.

CLASS FEATURES
All of the following are features of the noble class.

Defense Bonuses
At 1st level, you gain a +1 class bonus to your Reflex Defense and
a +2 class bonus to your Will Defense.

Starting Feats
You begin play with the following feats:
Linguist*
Weapon Proficiency (pistols)
Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons)
* You must meet the prerequisite of this feat (minimum Intel-
ligence 13) to gain it.

BACKGROUND

Nobles come to their profession in a variety of ways. Altruistic
nobles believe it is their duty and responsibility to serve and lead.
More selfish nobles seek the fame, wealth, and power often associ-
ated with the positions they aspire to. Power-hungry nobles take
advantage of the system and wind up helping others only to help
themselves. The halls of power are calling. How the noble answers

can make all the difference.

ARAN! KORDEN, FEMALE HUMAN NOBLE


--- Page 44 ---
Talents

At 1st level and every odd-numbered level thereafter (3rd, 5th, 7th, etc.),
you select a talent from any of the following talent trees. You may choose
a talent from any tree you wish, but you must meet the prerequisites (if
any) of the chosen talent. No talent can be selected more than once unless
expressly indicated.

INFLUENCE TALENT TREE
One of your greatest strengths is your ability to exert influence over your
opponents.

Presence: You can make a Persuasion check to intimidate a creature as
a standard action (instead of a full-round action).

Demand Surrender: Once per encounter, you can make a Persuasion
check as a standard action to demand surrender from an opponent who has
been reduced to one-half or less of its hit points. If your check result equals
or exceeds the target's Will Defense, it surrenders to you and your allies,
drops any weapons it is holding, and takes no hostile actions. If the target is
higher level than you, it gains a +5 bonus to its Will Defense. If you or any of
your allies attack it, it no longer submits to your will and can act normally.
You can only use this talent against a particular target once per encounter.
This is a mind-affecting effect.

Prerequisite: Presence.

Improved Weaken Resolve: As Weaken Resolve (see below), except that
the target doesn't stop fleeing from you if it is wounded.

Prerequisites: Presence, Weaken Resolve.

Weaken Resolve: Once per round, when you deal damage equal to or
greater than the target's damage threshold, make a Persuasion check as a free
action; if the result equals or exceeds the target's Will Defense, you fill the
target with terror, causing it to flee from you at top speed for 1 minute. The
target can't take standard actions, swift actions, or full-round actions while
fleeing, and the target stops fleeing and can act normally if it is wounded.
As a free action or reaction, the target can spend a Force Point (if it has
not already spent one earlier in the round) to negate the effect. The effect
is automatically negated if the target's level is equal to or higher than your
character level. This is a mind-affecting fear effect.

Prerequisite: Presence.

INSPIRATION TALENT TREE
Nobles are renowned for their ability to inspire their followers and urge
them to greatness. You can often get results out of their friends, allies, and
followers that other leaders cannot.

All of the talents in this tree are mind-affecting effects. Moreover, you
can't use any of these talents on yourself.

Bolster Ally: As a standard action, you can bolster an ally within line of
sight, moving him +1 step along the condition track (see Conditions, page
148) and giving him a number of bonus hit points equal to his character level

if he's at one-half his maximum hit points or less. Damage is subtracted from
the bonus hit points first, and any bonus hit points remaining at the end of
the encounter go away. You can't bolster the same ally more than once ina
single encounter, and you can't bolster yourself.

Ignite Fervor: Whenever you hit an opponent with a melee or ranged
attack, you can (as a free action) choose to give one ally within your line of

BASE ATTACK

LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES

2nd +1 Bonus feat

4th +3 Bonus feat

6th +4 Bonus feat

8th +6 Bonus feat

10th +7 Bonus feat

12th +9 Bonus feat

14th +1 OBonus feat

seseviS sieve

16th +1 2Bonus feat

18th +13 Bonus feat

20th +15 Bonus feat

Class Skills (trained in 6 + Int modifier): Deception, Gather Information,
Initiative, Knowledge (all skills, taken individually), Perception, Persuasion,
Pilot, Ride, Treat Injury, Use Computer



--- Page 45 ---
0
I
>
v
+
0
2

SessyviIeq BeXsH

sight a bonus to damage on his next attack equal to his character level. Once
his fervor has been ignited, the affected ally doesn't need to remain within
line of sight of you; if his next attack misses, he loses the bonus to damage
granted by this talent. You can't ignite fervor in yourself.

Prerequisites: Bolster Ally, Inspire Confidence.

Inspire Confidence: As a standard action, you can inspire confidence in
all allies in your line of sight, granting them a +1 morale bonus on attack rolls
and a +1 morale bonus on skill checks for the rest of the encounter or until
you're unconscious or dead. Once inspired, your allies don't need to remain
within line of sight of you. You can't inspire confidence in yourself.

Inspire Haste: As a swift action, you can encourage one of your allies
within line of sight to make haste with a skill check. On that ally's next turn,
that ally can make a skill check that requires a standard action as a move
action instead.

Inspire Zeal: Whenever an ally within line of sight of you makes an attack
that moves an opponent down the condition track (such as by dealing damage
that equals or exceeds the target's damage threshold), that ally moves the
target an additional -1 step down the condition track.

Prerequisites: Bolster Ally, Inspire Confidence, Ignite Fervor.

LEADERSHIP TALENT TREE
A born leader, you know how to take charge and lead your companions and
followers to success.

All of the talents in this tree are mind-affecting effects. Moreover, you
can't use any of these talents on yourself.

Born Leader: Once per encounter, as a swift action, you grant all allies
within your line of sight a +1 insight bonus on attack rolls. This effect lasts
for as long as they remain within line of sight of you. An ally loses this bonus
immediately if line of sight is broken or if you are unconscious or dead.

Coordinate: A noble with this talent has a knack for getting people to
work together. When you use this talent as a standard action, all allies within
your line of sight grant an additional +1 bonus when they use the aid another
action until the start of your next turn (see Aid Another, page 151).

You may select this talent multiple times; each time you do, the bonus
granted by the coordinate ability increases by +1 (to a maximum of +5).

Distant Command: Any ally who gains the benefit of your Born Leader
talent (see above) does not lose the benefit if their line of sight to you is
broken.

Prerequisite: Born Leader.

Fearless Leader: As a swift action, you can provide a courageous example for
your allies. For the remainder of the encounter, your allies receive a +5 morale
bonus to their Will Defense against any fear effect. Your allies lose this benefit
if they lose line of sight to you, or if you are killed or knocked unconscious.

Prerequisite: Born Leader.

Rally: Once per encounter, you can rally your allies and bring them back
from the edge of defeat. As a swift action, any allies within your line of sight

who have less than half their total hit points remaining gain a +2 morale
bonus to their Reflex Defense and Will Defense and a +2 bonus to all damage
rolls for the remainder of the encounter.

Prerequisites: Born Leader, Distant Command.

Trust: You can give up your standard action to give one ally within your
line of sight an extra standard action or move action on his next turn, to
do with as he pleases. The ally does not lose the action if line of sight is
later broken.

Prerequisites: Born Leader, Coordinate.

LINEAGE TALENT TREE
You lead a privileged life and reap the benefit of an upbringing beyond most
citizens of the galaxy.

Connections: You are able to obtain licensed, restricted, military, or illegal
equipment without having to pay a licensing fee or endure a background
check, provided the total cost of the desired equipment is equal to or less
than your character level x 1,000 credits. In addition, when obtaining equip-
ment or services through the black market, you reduce the black market cost
multiplier by 1. See Restricted Items (page 118) for details.

Educated: Thanks to your well-rounded education, you may make any
Knowledge check untrained.

Spontaneous Skill: Sometimes you surprise others with your skill. Once
per day, you may make an untrained skill check as though you were trained
in the skill. Exception: You cannot use this talent to make an untrained Use
the Force check as though you were trained in the skill unless you have the
Force Sensitivity feat (page 85).

You can select this talent multiple times; each time you do, you can use
it one additional time per day.

Prerequisite: Educated.

Wealth: Each time you gain a level (including the level at which you select
this talent), you receive an amount of credits equal to 5,000 x your noble
level. You can spend these credits as you see fit. The credits appear in a civi-
lized, accessible location of your choice or in your private bank account.

Bonus Feats

At every even-numbered level (2nd, 4th, 6th, etc.), you gain a bonus feat.
This feat must be selected from the following list, and you must meet any
prerequisites for that feat.

Armor Proficiency (light), Cybernetic Surgery, Exotic Weapon Proficiency,
Linguist, Melee Defense, Skill Focus, Skill Training, Surgical Expertise,
Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons), Weapon
Proficiency (rifles).

CREDITS
A ist-level noble starts play with 3d4 x 400 credits.

¥


--- Page 46 ---
SCOUNDREL

Scoundrels are rogues—good, bad, and neutral—who either live outside the law
or fight against it in order to get the upper hand. They can come from any world
or region of the galaxy. Most use their intelligence and dexterity to accomplish
tasks, and many rely on charisma as a fallback when all else fails. The scoundrel
gets by with bravado, cunning, duplicity, and trickery. They live by their wits,
lying, cheating, stealing, and even fighting when the need arises.

EXPLOITS

Many scoundrels live a life of adventure for the excitement it provides. Others
go adventuring to advance their illicit careers. Some are good-hearted rogues
in it for the thrill or to right a wrong done to them or those they love. Others
are despicable knaves who serve only one master—the greed that swells inside
them. More often, a adventurous scoundrel falls somewhere in the middle,
changing allegiance and attitudes as the political climate changes, until
something larger than himself sets him on a particular course through the
galaxy. Adventurous scoundrels call themselves smugglers, pirates, outlaws,
gamblers, slicers, con artists, thieves, rogues, and spies.

CHARACTERISTICS

Scoundrels have a knack for getting into and out of trouble. They have an
instinct for self-preservation that keeps them alive, but it's usually tempered
with a need to experience the thrills that their profession has to offer, and
many adventurous scoundrels are also saddled with a sense of honor that
sometimes makes them go against their natural inclinations.

BACKGROUND

Scoundrels don't often start out seeking to defy authority and break the law.
Some are thrust into the profession as a means of rebellion. Others wind up
on the wrong side of the law due to bad luck, poor decisions, or circumstances
beyond their control. The skills they pick up along the way make them great
members of any mission team.

EXAMPLES OF SCOUNDRELS IN
STAR WARS
Han Solo, Lando Calrissian, Dash Rendar, Dexter Jettster, Ghent, Watto.

GAME RULE INFORMATION
Scoundrels have the following game statistics.

Abilities

Dexterity and Intelligence are a scoundrel's most important ability scores,
because he must have quick reflexes and a sharp wit to survive. Charisma
is important for talking one's way out of trouble, and Wisdom is useful for
spotting trouble before it finds the scoundrel.

Hit Points

Scoundrels begin play at 1st level with a number of hit points equal to 18 +
their Constitution modifier. At each level after 1st, scoundrels gain 1d6 hit
points + their Constitution modifier.

BASE ATTACK

LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES

2nd +1 Bonus Feat

4th +3 Bonus Feat

6th +4 Bonus Feat

8th +6 Bonus Feat

10th +7 Bonus Feat

12th +9 Bonus Feat

SsESssvIS sIeveH)

14th +10 Bonus Feat

16th +12 Bonus Feat

18th +13 Bonus Feat

20th +15 Bonus Feat

Class Skills (trained in 4 + Int modifier): Acrobatics, Deception, Gather
Information, Initiative, Knowledge (all skills, taken individually), Mechanics,
Perception, Persuasion, Pilot, Stealth, Use Computer



--- Page 47 ---
I YSildavHy

S

SessyviVe Siels-)

Force Points Knack: Once per day, you can reroll a skill check and take the better
Scoundrels gain a number of Force Points equal to 5 + one-half their result.
character level (rounded down) at 1st level and every time they gain You can select this talent multiple times; each time you select

a new level in this class. Any Force Points left over from previous this talent, you can use it one additional time per day.
levels are lost. Lucky Shot: Once per day, you can reroll an attack roll and

take the better result.

You can select this talent multiple times; each time you
select this talent, you can use it one additional time per
day.

CLASS FEATURES

All of the following are features of the scoundrel class.
Defense Bonuses Prerequisite: Knack.
At 1st level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex

Defense and a +1 class bonus to your Will Defense. MISFORTUNE TALENT TREE

Your mother always said you were trouble. Now, your
enemies know it, too.

Dastardly Strike: Whenever you make a successful
attack against an opponent that is denied its Dexterity
bonus to Reflex Defense, the target moves -1 step along

the condition track (see Conditions, page 148).
Disruptive: By spending two swift actions, you can
use your knack for causing trouble and instigating
chaos to disrupt your enemies. Until the start of
your next turn, you suppress all morale and insight
bonuses applied to enemies in your line of sight.
Skirmisher: If you move at least 2 squares
before you attack and end your move in a dif-
ferent square from where you started, you gain

a +1 bonus on attack rolls until the start of your

next turn.
Sneak Attack: Any time your opponent is
flat-footed or otherwise denied its Dexterity
bonus to Reflex Defense, you deal an extra 1d6
points of damage with a successful melee or ranged
attack. You must be within 6 squares of the target to
make a sneak attack with a ranged weapon.

You may select this talent multiple times. Each time
you select it, your sneak attack damage increases by
+1d6 (maximum +10d6).

Walk the Line: As a standard action, you can do or
say something that catches your enemies off guard. All

opponents within 6 squares of you and in your line of sight
take a -2 penalty to their defenses until the start of your next
turn. The penalty is negated if line of sight is broken.

Prerequisite: Disruptive.

Starting Feats

You begin play with the following feats:
Point Blank Shot
Weapon Proficiency (pistols)
Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons)

Talents

At 1st level and every odd-numbered level thereafter
(3rd, 5tn, 7th, etc.), you select a talent from any of
the following talent trees. You may choose a talent
from any tree you wish, but you must meet the pre-
requisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can be
selected more than once unless expressly indicated.

FORTUNE TALENT TREE
Many scoundrels like to gamble with destiny, putting every-
thing on the line and trusting fate (or the Force) to bring
them fortune, fame, and success.

Fool's Luck: As a standard action, you can spend a Force
Point to gain one of the following benefits for the rest of the
encounter: a +1 luck bonus on attack rolls, a +5 luck bonus
on skill checks, or a +1 luck bonus to all your defenses.

Fortune's Favor: Whenever you score a critical hit with
a melee or ranged attack, you gain a free standard action.
You must take the extra standard action before the end of
your turn, or else it is lost.

Gambler: You gain a +2 competence bonus on Wisdom
checks when you gamble (see the Gambling sidebar on the
next page).

You can select this talent multiple times; each time you take
this talent, the competence bonus increases by +2.

DEEL SUROOL, MALE Twi'LeK SCOUNDREL


--- Page 48 ---
SLICER TALENT TREE
You move like a ghost through the HoloNet and can hack into enemy main-
frames and computer systems with astonishing grace.

Gimmick: You can issue a routine command to a computer (see page
76) as a swift action.

Master Slicer: You may choose to reroll any Use Computer check made to
improve access on a computer, keeping the better of the two results.

Prerequisite: Gimmick.

Trace: You can substitute your Use Computer skill for any Gather Informa-
tion check as long as you have access to a computer network.

SPACER TALENT TREE
You prowl the space lanes seeking wealth, fame, adventure, or something
more. You're also pretty good with vehicles in general.

Hyperdriven: Once per day while aboard a starship, you can add your
scoundrel class level as a bonus on a single attack roll, skill check, or ability
check. The decision to add this bonus can be made after the result of the
roll or check is known.

Spacehound: You take no penalty on attack rolls in low-gravity or
zero-gravity environments, and you ignore the debilitating effects of space
sickness (see Zero-Gravity Environments, page 257). In addition, you are
considered proficient with any starship weapon.

Starship Raider: You gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls while aboard a
starship. This bonus applies to attacks made with starship weapons as well
as personal weapons used aboard a starship.

Prerequisite: Spacehound.

Stellar Warrior: Whenever you roll a natural 20 on an attack roll made
aboard a starship, you gain one temporary Force Point. If the Force Point is
not used before the end of the encounter, it is lost.

Prerequisite: Spacehound.

Bonus Feats
At every even-numbered level (2nd, 4th, 6th, etc.), you gain a bonus feat.
This feat must be selected from the following list, and you must meet any
prerequisites for that feat.

Deadeye, Dodge, Melee Defense, Mobility, Precise Shot, Quick Draw, Rapid
Shot, Running Attack, Skill Focus, Skill Training, Vehicular Combat, Weapon
Proficiency (advanced melee weapons).

CREDITS
A 1st-level scoundrel starts play with 3d4 x 250 credits.

SEsevIa sieve



--- Page 49 ---
Scout

Scouts are natural explorers and adventurers, full of curiosity and trained to
handle the out-of-the-way locations where they often operate. Scouts tend
to be independent, signing on when the credits are good and their skills are
best utilized and tested. Scouts understand the lay of the land and the orbit

BASE ATTACK

LEVEL BONUS — CLASS FEATURES

2nd +1 Bonus Feat

4th +3 Bonus Feat

6th +4 Bonus Feat

8th +6 Bonus Feat

10th +7 Bonus Feat

12th +9 Bonus Feat

14th +10 Bonus Feat

16th +12 Bonus Feat

18th +13 Bonus Feat

20th +15 Bonus Feat

Class Skills (trained in 5 + Int modifier): Climb, Endurance, Initiative, Jump,
Knowledge (all skills, taken individually), Mechanics, Perception, Pilot, Ride,
Stealth, Survival, Swim

of the stars. They know how to recognize danger and locate the basic neces-
sities for survival. The scout seeks knowledge, tries to solve mysteries, and
wants to be the first to see something new and different. The scout learns
to find a path through the wild regions, often becoming a decent pilot along
the way, and usually learns how to protect himself from whatever hides over
the next hill or beyond the most distant nebula.

EXxPLoITs

Many scouts become adventurers to see what's in the next star system.
They pick up skills that make them excellent members of any team. They
are usually the best trackers, trailblazers, and survivalists the galaxy has to
offer. Some scouts are scientists and researchers who learn the skills of the
profession so they don't have to rely on others. Some sell their services to the
highest bidder. More often, the adventurous scout has a good heart, a sense
of honor, and a burning desire to embrace the wild regions of the galaxy and
learn to conquer them—either figuratively or literally. Adventurous scouts
call themselves rangers, outriders, hunters, explorers, guides, adventurous
scholars, and vanguards.

CHARACTERISTICS

Scouts temper insatiable curiosity with excellent survival instincts. They
make use of dexterity and intelligence, as well as wisdom, to spot and avoid
dangers. The scout has an undying faith in himself and his abilities that
sometimes allows the scout to call upon reserves and an inner strength to
get out of tough situations. Scouts like to be the first to reach any location,
although they also want to reach it in one piece. They can be gruff or silent,
jovial or talkative. They are confident and brave, and they often appreciate
the wonders that the galaxy has to offer.

BACKGROUND

Scouts come to their profession in search of something, usually knowledge or
secrets or the answers to the mysteries of the ages. Scholars, while possibly
associated with an institute of learning or a particular government, often
forsake the halls of academe for the pure research of working in the field.
Pathfinders and explorers may work for a government or a military institu-
tion, or they may take on freelance contracts from anyone willing to pay for
their services. Many scouts develop into bounty hunters, especially those
who combine military skills with their tracking and searching abilities. Every
group of adventurers benefits from having a scout in the party.

EXAMPLES OF SCOUTS IN
STAR WARS
Chewbacca, Wicket the Ewok, Captain Tarpals.

GAME RULE INFORMATION
Scouts have the following game statistics.


--- Page 50 ---
Abilities AWARENESS TALENT TREE
Most of the scout's key skills rely on Dexterity, Intelligence, You are exceptionally good at noticing things and avoiding perilous
and Wisdom. Strength is also useful for the scout trained in a) situations.
athletic skills. Acute Senses: You may choose to reroll any Perception check, but
the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse.
Expert Tracker: You take no penalty on Survival checks made to
follow tracks while moving your normal speed. (Without this talent,
you take a -5 penalty on Survival checks made to follow tracks while
moving your normal speed.)
Prerequisite: Acute Senses.

Improved Initiative: You may choose to reroll any Initiative
check, but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is
worse.

Prerequisite: Acute Senses.

Keen Shot: You take no penalty on your attack roll when attack-
ing a target with concealment (but not total concealment).

Prerequisite: Acute Senses.

Uncanny Dodge |: You retain your Dexterity bonus to your
Reflex Defense regardless of being caught flat-footed or struck
by a hidden attacker. You still lose your Dexterity bonus
to your Reflex Defense if you are immobilized.

Prerequisites: Acute Senses, Improved Initiative.

Uncanny Dodge II: You cannot be flanked. You
can react to opponents on opposite sides of you as
easily as you can react to a single attacker.

Prerequisites: Acute Senses, Improved Initia-
tive, Uncanny Dodge I.

Hit Points
Scouts begin play at 1st level with a number of hit points
equal to 24 + their Constitution modifier. At each level after
ist, scoundrels gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitu-
tion modifier.

Force Points

Scouts gain a number of Force Points equal to 5
+ one-half their character level (rounded down)
at Ist level and every time they gain a new level
in this class. Any Force Points left over from
previous levels are lost.

CLASS FEATURES
All of the following are features of the scout
class.

Defense Bonuses

At 1st level, you gain a +1 class bonus to your Forti-
tude Defense and a +2 class bonus to your Reflex
Defense. (See page 145 for more information on
defenses.)

CAMOUFLAGE TALENT TREE
You learn quickly how to blend in with your
environment.

Hidden Movement: You're very good at
hiding when mobile. You take no penalty on your
Stealth check when moving your normal speed.

Prerequisite: Improved Stealth.
Improved Stealth: You may choose to reroll any Stealth check, but the
result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse.

Total Concealment: Any situation that would give you concealment
(see page 156) grants you total concealment instead.

Prerequisites: Hidden Movement, Improved Stealth.

Starting Feats
You begin play with the following feats:
Shake It Off*
Weapon Proficiency (pistols)
Weapon Proficiency (rifles)
Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons)
* You must meet the prerequisite of this feat (mini-
mum Constitution 13 and trained in the Endurance
skill) to gain it.

Talents

At 1st level and every odd-numbered level thereafter
(3rd, 5th, 7th, etc.), you select a talent from any of the
following talent trees. You may choose a talent from
any tree you wish, but you must meet the prerequisites
(if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can be selected
more than once unless expressly indicated.

FRINGER TALENT TREE
You're especially skilled at “getting by" on backwater worlds.
Barter: You may reroll any Persuasion check made to haggle
(see the Persuasion skill, page 71). You must, however, accept the
result of the reroll.

KELKO, MALE RODIAN ScouT

Sessv7If SiexXsEH) ® til YSBiavHg )

t


--- Page 51 ---
Wl SeSsidvHga

a
W
ay
©
Q
Q
rr
>
0)
@
Wy)
@

Fringe Savant: Whenever you roll a natural 20 on a skill check
during an encounter, you gain one temporary Force Point. If the
Force Point is not used before the end of the encounter, it is
lost.

Long Stride: Your speed increases by 2 squares
if you are wearing light armor or no armor. If
you have a natural fly, climb, or swim speed,
it increases by 2 squares as well. You cannot
use this talent if you are wearing medium or
heavy armor.

Jury-Rigger: You may reroll any
Mechanics check made to accomplish a
jury-rigged repair (see the Mechanics skill,
page 68). You must, however, accept the
result of the reroll.

SOLDIER

Soldiers combine discipline with martial skills to become the best pure

warriors in the galaxy. Soldiers can be stalwart defenders
of those in need, cruel marauders, or brave adventurers.
They can be hired guns, noble champions, or cold-hearted
killers. They fight for glory, for honor, to right wrongs,
to gain power, to acquire wealth, or simply for the thrill
of battle.

ExPLoIiTs
Many soldiers see adventures, raids on enemy strong-
holds, and dangerous missions as their jobs. Some want
to defend those who can't defend themselves; others
seek to use their muscle to carve their own place of
importance in the galaxy. Whatever their initial moti-
vation, most soldiers wind up living for the thrill of
combat and the excitement of adventure. Adventuring
soldiers call themselves guards, bodyguards, champions,
enforcers, mercenaries, warriors, soldiers of fortune, or
simply adventurers.

SURVIVOR TALENT TREE
As an explorer of dangerous places, you are trained to
react to danger swiftly and adroitly, as well as navigate
difficult terrain and reduce damage.

Evasion: If you are hit by an area attack (see
Area Attacks, page 155), you take half damage if the
attack hit you. If the area attack misses you, you take
no damage.

Extreme Effort: You can spend two swift actions to
gain a +5 bonus on a single Strength check or Strength-
based skill check made during the same round.

Sprint: When you use the run action, you can move
up to five times your speed (instead of the normal four
times your speed).

Surefooted: Your speed is not reduced by difficult ter-
rain (see Difficult Terrain, page 159).

CHARACTERISTICS
Soldiers have the best all-around fighting abilities, and an
individual soldier develops styles and techniques that set
him apart from his peers. A given soldier might be especially
capable with certain weapons, another trained to execute spe-
cific combat maneuvers. As soldiers gain experience, they get
more opportunities to develop their fighting skills.

BACKGROUND

Most soldiers come to the profession after receiving at least
some amount of formal training from a military organiza-
tion, local militia, or private army. Some attend formal
academies; others are self-taught and well tested. A soldier
may have taken up his weapon to escape a mundane life.
Another may be following a proud family tradition. Soldiers
in a particular unit share a certain camaraderie, but most
have nothing in common except battle prowess and the
desire to apply it to a given situation.

Bonus Feats
At every even-numbered level (2nd, 4th, 6th, etc.), you gain a
bonus feat. This feat must be selected from the following list,
and you must meet any prerequisites for that feat.

Armor Proficiency (light, medium, or heavy), Careful
Shot, Deadeye, Dodge, Far Shot, Linguist, Mobility,
Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Running
Attack, Skill Focus, Skill Training, Sniper, Vehicular
Combat, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee
weapons).

EXAMPLES OF SOLDIERS

IN STAR WARS

Admiral Ackbar, Corran Horn, Captain Panaka, Captain

Typho, General Crix Madine, Kyle Katarn, Wedge Antilles,
Zam Wesell.

CREDITS
A 1st-level scout starts play with 3d4 x 250 credits.

VOR'EN KURN, MALE HUMAN SOLDIER


--- Page 52 ---
GAME RULE INFORMATION
Soldiers have the following game statistics.

Abilities

Since most combat in the Star Wars universe uses blasters and other ranged
weapons, Dexterity is the soldier's most important ability score, followed
closely by Constitution and Strength. Don't underestimate the importance
of Intelligence and Wisdom, however, since many of a soldier's useful skills
are based on these abilities.

Hit Points

Soldiers begin play at 1st level with a number of hit points equal to 30 + their
Constitution modifier. At each level after 1st, soldiers gain 1d10 hit points
+ their Constitution modifier.

Force Points

Soldiers gain a number of Force Points equal to 5 + one-half their character
level (rounded down) at 1st level and every time they gain a new level in this
class. Any Force Points left over from previous levels are lost.

CLASS FEATURES
All of the following are features of the soldier class.

Defense Bonuses
At 1st level, you gain a +1 bonus to your Reflex Defense and a +2 bonus to
your Fortitude Defense.

Starting Feats
You begin play with the following feats:
Armor Proficiency (light)
Armor Proficiency (medium)
Weapon Proficiency (pistols)
Weapon Proficiency (rifles)
Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons)

Talents

At 1st level and every odd-numbered level thereafter (3rd, 5th, 7th, etc.),
you select a talent from any of the following talent trees. You may choose
a talent from any tree you wish, but you must meet the prerequisites (if
any) of the chosen talent. No talent can be selected more than once unless
expressly indicated.

ARMOR SPECIALIST TALENT TREE
You can maximize the benefits of wearing armor while reducing or eliminat-
ing some of its drawbacks.

Armor Mastery: The maximum Dexterity bonus of your armor improves
by +1. You must be proficient with the armor you are wearing to gain this
benefit.

Prerequisite: Armored Defense.

BASE ATTACK

LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES

2nd +2 Bonus Feat

4th +4 Bonus Feat

6th +6 Bonus Feat

8th +8 Bonus Feat

10th +10 Bonus Feat

12th +12 Bonus Feat

14th +14 Bonus Feat

SESssevia sieven

16th +16 Bonus Feat

18th +18 Bonus Feat

20th +20 Bonus Feat

Class Skills (trained in 3 + Int modifier): Climb, Endurance, Initiative, Jump,
Knowledge (tactics), Mechanics, Perception, Pilot, Swim, Treat Injury, Use
Computer

0
I
>
v
uy
‘Dh



--- Page 53 ---
Armored Defense: When calculating your Reflex Defense, you may add
either your heroic level or your armor bonus, whichever is higher. You must
be proficient with the armor you are wearing to gain this benefit.

Improved Armored Defense: When calculating your Reflex Defense, you
may add your heroic level plus one-half your armor bonus (rounded down)
or your armor bonus, whichever is higher. You must be proficient with the
armor you are wearing to gain this benefit.

Prerequisite: Armored Defense.

Juggernaut: Your armor does not reduce your speed or the distance you
can move while running. You must be proficient with the armor you are
wearing to gain this benefit.

Prerequisite: Armored Defense.

Second Skin: When wearing armor with which you are proficient, your
armor bonus to your Reflex Defense and equipment bonus to your Fortitude
Defense increase by +1.

Prerequisite: Armored Defense.

BRAWLER TALENT TREE
You like to get “up close and personal” with your enemies and engage them
in melee combat.

Expert Grappler: You gain a +2 competence bonus on grapple attacks
(see page 153).

Gun Club: You can use a ranged weapon as a melee weapon without
taking a penalty on your attack roll. (Normally you take a -5 penalty on
attack rolls made with an improvised weapon.) The weapon is otherwise
treated as a club in all respects.

If you are using a rifle with a mounted bayonet (see page 121) or vibro-
bayonet (see page 124), you may wield that weapon as a double weapon.
The bayonet or vibrobayonet end is treated normally, and the other end is
treated as a club.

Melee Smash: You deal +1 point of damage with melee attacks.

Stunning Strike: When you damage an opponent with a melee attack, your
opponent moves an additional -1 step along the condition track (see page 149)
if your attack roll result equals or exceeds the target's damage threshold.

Prerequisite: Melee Smash.

Unbalance Opponent: You are skilled at keeping your opponents off
balance in melee combat. During your action, you designate an opponent
no more than one size category larger or smaller than you. That opponent
doesn't get to add his Strength bonus on attack rolls when targeting you.

*YOUR FRIEND
| WONDER
ANYTHING ..

(If the opponent has a Strength penalty, he still suffers that penalty.) The
opponent's Strength modifier applies to damage, as usual. You can select a
new opponent on your next turn.

Prerequisite: Expert Grappler.

COMMANDO TALENT TREE
You use advanced combat tactics to take down enemies quickly, shield your
comrades, and endure whatever challenges are thrown your way.

Battle Analysis: As a swift action, you can make a DC 15 Knowledge
(tactics) check. If the check succeeds, you know which allies and opponents
in your line of sight are reduced to at least half of their maximum total hit
points.

Cover Fire: When you make a ranged attack with a pistol or rifle, all allies
within 6 squares of you when the attack is made gain a +1 bonus to Reflex
Defense until the start of your next turn. Allies within range don't need to
be within your line of sight to gain the bonus.

Prerequisite: Battle Analysis.

Demolitionist: When you use the Mechanics skill to place an explosive
device, the explosion deals +2 dice of damage. You may take this talent
multiple times; its effects stack.

Draw Fire: You can distract opponents and convince them that you are
the most tempting (or most dangerous) target in an area. As a swift action,
make a Persuasion check and compare the result to the Will Defense of all
opponents within line of sight. If the check result exceeds an opponent's Will
Defense, that opponent cannot attack any character within 6 squares of you
until the start of your next turn as long as you do not have cover against that
opponent. (The affected opponent may still attack you, however.)

Harm's Way: Once per round, you may spend a swift action to shield a
single adjacent ally from attacks, taking the damage and suffering the ill
effects in your ally's stead. Until the start of your next turn, any attack made
against the protected ally affects you instead. You may elect not to shield
your protected ally against a given attack, provided the decision is made
before the attack roll is made.

Prerequisite: Trained in the Initiative skill.

Indomitable: Once per day as a swift action, you can move +5 steps on
the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). This does not remove any
persistent conditions that may be affecting you (see page 149).

You can select this talent multiple times. Each time you select this talent,
you can use it one additional time per day.

Is QUITE A MERCENARY.
IF HE REALLY CARES ABOUT

OR ANYBODY."
LEIA ORGANA


--- Page 54 ---
Tough as Nails: You can catch a second wind one extra time per day
(see Second Wind, page 146). If you have this talent and the Extra Second
Wind feat (see page 85), you can catch your second wind a total of three
times per day.

WEAPON SPECIALIST TALENT TREE
You are highly trained at using specific weapons.

Devastating Attack: Choose a single exotic weapon or weapon group
with which you are proficient. Whenever you make a successful attack against
a target using such a weapon, you treat your target's damage threshold as if
it were 5 points lower when determining the result of your attack.

You may select this talent multiple times. Each time you select this talent,
it applies to a different exotic weapon or weapon group.

Penetrating Attack: Choose a single exotic weapon or weapon group
with which you are proficient. Whenever you make a successful attack against
a target using such a weapon, you treat your target's damage reduction as if
it were 5 points lower when determining the result of your attack.

You may select this talent multiple times. Each time you select this talent,
it applies to a different exotic weapon or weapon group.

Prerequisite: Weapon Focus with chosen exotic weapon or weapon group.

Weapon Specialization: Choose a single exotic weapon or weapon
group with which you are proficient. You gain a +2 bonus on damage rolls
with such weapons.

You may select this talent multiple times. Each time you select this talent,
it applies to a different exotic weapon or weapon group.

Prerequisite: Weapon Focus with chosen exotic weapon or weapon

group.

Bonus Feats

At every even-numbered level (2nd, 4th, 6th, etc.), you gain a bonus feat.
This feat must be selected from the following list, and you must meet any
prerequisites for that feat.

Armor Proficiency (heavy), Bantha Rush, Careful Shot, Charging Fire,
Cleave, Combat Reflexes, Coordinated Attack, Crush, Deadeye, Double
Attack, Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual Weapon Mastery II, Dual Weapon
Mastery Ill, Exotic Weapon Proficiency, Far Shot, Great Cleave, Improved
Charge, Improved Disarm, Martial Arts |, Martial Arts Il, Martial Arts III,
Melee Defense, Mighty Swing, Pin, Point Blank Shot, Power Attack, Precise
Shot, Quick Draw, Rapid Shot, Rapid Strike, Running Attack, Shake It Off,
Skill Focus, Skill Training, Sniper, Throw, Toughness, Trip, Triple Attack, Triple
Crit, Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee
weapons), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons).

CREDITS
A 1st-level soldier starts play with 3d4 x 250 credits.

Mt eSstavHoD

Ssssvie) HeeHs-)



--- Page 55 ---
fl SeSstavHga

SessviIeg HSevseH)

MULTICLASS
CHARACTERS

Acharacter may add new classes as he or she progresses in levels. Multiclass-
ing improves a character's versatility at the expense of focus.

CLASS AND LEVEL FEATURES
As a general rule, the abilities of a multiclass character are the sum of the
abilities of each of the character's classes.

Level

"Character level" is a character's total number of levels. It derives from
overall XP earned and is used to determine when feats and ability score
boosts are gained, as per Table 3-1: Experience and Level-Dependent Ben-
efits. "Class level" is the character's level in a particular class, as per the
individual class tables. For the single-class hero, character level and class
level are the same.

Hit Points

Each time you gain a new level, roll a hit point die (the size of the die
depends on the class in which the level is gained) and add the result to your
character's hit point total. Your character's Constitution modifier applies to
each hit point die roll.

For example, a 1st-level scout who becomes a 1st-level scout/1st-level
soldier gains a number of additional hit points equal to 1d10 + the character's
Constitution modifier. A few game sessions later, the character gains a second
level in the scout class, becoming a 2nd-level scout/1st-level soldier, where-
upon her hit points increase by 1d8 + the character's Constitution modifier.

Base Attack Bonus

Add the base attack bonus of each class to get the character's base attack
bonus. For instance, a 6th-level noble/2nd-level soldier has a base attack
bonus of +6 (+4 for noble, +2 for soldier).

Defenses
Each time a character gains a new level, his Reflex Defense, Fortitude
Defense, and Will Defense need to be adjusted to account for the increase
in character level.

A character who takes his first level of a new class also gains a class
bonus to one or more of his defenses; however, this class bonus does not
stack with other class bonuses.

Skills
When you select a new class, you do not gain any new trained skills. However,
your list of class skills expands to include those of the new class. If you take

the Skill Training feat (page 88), you may choose your new trained skill from
the class skill list of any class in which you have levels.

For example, Arani is a multiclass noble/soldier who takes the Skill Training
feat. Her new trained skill may be chosen from the noble's list of class skills
or the soldier's list of class skills.

Starting Feats

When you select a new class, you do not gain all of its starting feats. Select
one feat from the list of starting feats. For example, a 1st-level noble decides
to take a level of soldier and gains one feat of his choice from the soldier's
list of starting feats; he selects Weapon Proficiency (rifles).

Talents

If a character gains a talent as a consequence of gaining a level, he must
select a talent associated with the class in which he gained the level. For
example, Arani is a 2nd-level noble who decides to take a level in the soldier
class, which grants her a talent. She must select her new talent from the
soldier talent trees (or from Force talent trees, if she has the Force Sensitivity
feat), since it was a soldier level that granted her the talent.

Feats

For multiclass characters, feats are received at 3rd level and every three
character levels thereafter, regardless of individual class level (see Table
3-1: Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits).

A multiclass character that gains a class bonus feat must select it from
the bonus feats available to that particular class. For example, Arani is a
2nd-level noble/1st-level soldier who decides to take a second level in the
soldier class. Doing so grants her a bonus feat, which she must select from
the soldier's list of bonus feats (page 53).

Ability Increases
For multiclass characters, abilities are increased every four character levels,
regardless of individual class level (see Table 3-1: Experience and Level-
Dependent Benefits).

ADDING A SECOND CLASS

When a single-class character gains a level, he or she may choose to increase
the level of his or her current class or pick up a new class at Ist level. The
GM may restrict the choices available according to how he or she handles
classes, skills, experience, and training. For instance, the character may need
to find a teacher to instruct him in the ways of the new class. Additionally, the
GM may require the player to declare what class his or her hero is “working
on" before he or she makes the jump to the next level, so the character has
time to practice new skills. In this way, gaining the new class is the result of
previous effort rather than a sudden development.


--- Page 56 ---
The character gains the base attack bonus, class bonuses to defense,
and class skills, as well as hit points of the appropriate die type and a talent
associated with the new class.

Picking up a new class is not exactly the same as starting a character in
that class. Some of the benefits fora 1st-level hero represent the advantage
of training while young and fresh, with lots of time to practice. When picking
up a new class, a hero does not receive the following starting benefits given
to characters that begin their careers in that class.

¢ Starting feats (select only one of the starting feats)
e Maximum, tripled hit points from the first die
e Starting credits

ADVANCING A LEVEL
Each time a multiclass character achieves a new level, he either increases one
of his current class levels by one or picks up a new class at ‘st level.

When a multiclass character increases one of his classes by one level, he
gets all the standard benefits that characters get for achieving that level in
that class: more hit points, possible bonuses on attack rolls, better defense
scores, and one or more new class features (such as a talent or bonus feat).
In addition, a multiclass character has the option to take any starting feat
for that class as a bonus feat.

HOW MULTICLASSING WORKS

Arani, a 4th-level noble, decides she wants to expand her repertoire by learn-
ing some soldiering. When Arani reaches 10,000 XP, she becomes a 5th-level
character. Instead of becoming a 5th-level noble, however, she becomes a
4th-level noble/1st-level soldier. How exactly she picked up this new area of
focus isn't critical to the campaign, though the player and GM are encouraged
to create an in-game reason and opportunity for the hero to do so.

Now, instead of gaining the benefits of a new level of noble, she gains
the benefits of becoming a 1st-level soldier. She gains a 1st-level soldier's hit
points (1d10 + her Constitution modifier), a 1st-level soldier's +1 base attack
bonus, a soldier's +2 class bonus to Fortitude Defense, and a soldier talent.
Because she gained a level, all of her defenses (Reflex, Fortitude, and Will)
increase by 1.

The benefits described above are added to the scores Arani already had
as a noble. She doesn't gain any of the benefits a 5th-level noble gains.

On achieving 15,000 XP, Arani becomes a 6th-level hero. She decides she'd
like to continue along the soldier path, so she increases her soldier level instead
of her noble level. Again she gains the soldier's benefits for attaining a new
level rather than the noble's. At this point, Arani is a 4th-level noble/2nd-level
soldier. Her combat skill is a little better than a 4th-level noble'’s would be
because she has learned something about fighting during her time as a soldier.
Her base attack bonus is +5 (+3 from her noble class and +2 from her soldier
class). Her Reflex, Fortitude, and Will Defenses each increase by 1.

At each new level, Arani decides whether to increase her noble level or her
soldier level. Of course, if she wants to have even more diverse abilities, she
could acquire a third class, such as scoundrel. At some point, she may also
qualify for a prestige class (see Chapter 12: Prestige Classes). In general, a
character can multiclass as many times as there are classes available.

ii) HSaLavHo

Sessviof DeX2SEF)


--- Page 57 ---
— CHAPTER IV
SKILLS



--- Page 58 ---
Deel Surool, a scoundrel, can walk quietly behind an Imperial shuttle, crouch
in a shadow, and carefully listen for a stormtrooper commander giving orders
to its troops. If Vor'en Kurn, a soldier, were to try the same thing, he'd be
more likely to make so much noise the stormtroopers would hear him. He,
however, could dash into the shuttle and take its controls, flying it away
while the stormtroopers fire at it impotently. These actions and many more
are determined by the skills that characters have (in this case, Perception,
Pilot, and Stealth).

SKILLS SUMMARY

Your character's skills represent a variety of abilities, and you get better at
them as you go up in level. A skill check takes into account your training
(trained skill bonus), natural talent (ability modifier), and luck (the die roll). It
may also take into account your species’ knack for certain skills or the armor
you're wearing (armor check penalty), among other things.

TRAINED SKILLS vs.
UNTRAINED SKILLS
When you make a character, you are allowed to select a number of skills a as

ained skills are selected from the character's list of class skills at 1st level,
 Saeeag may acquire new trained skills by taking the Skill Training

’ at #2 gain a +5 bonus on skill checks if you're trained in the skill.
r, some skills (such as Use the Force) can't be used untrained.

SING SKILLS
ak check, roll:
e-half your character level + key ability modifier + mis-
difiers

If you are trained in the skill, add +5 to the skill check result.

Askill check is made just like an attack roll or a saving throw. The higher
the roll, the better. You're either trying to get a result that equals or exceeds
a certain Difficulty Class (DC), or you're trying to beat another character's
check result. For instance, to sneak quietly past a guard, Deel needs to beat
the guard's Perception check with a Stealth check.

When adding “one-half your character level," always round down (a 1st-
level character adds +0).

The "key ability modifier" is the character's bonus or penalty for the skill's
associated ability (Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom,
or Charisma). The key ability of a skill is noted in its description and on
Table 4-2: Skills.

Al SsievHo



--- Page 59 ---
PA esiavHo

SIwWaS

“Miscellaneous modifiers” include armor check penalties and bonuses
provided by talents, feats, or equipment.

Some skills can't be used untrained. These skills are noted on Table 4-4:
Skills. If your character is not trained in these particular skills, you are not
allowed to make any kind of check with them.

How DO SKILLS WORK?

A character begins play with a number of trained skills based on his or her
starting heroic class (Jedi, noble, scoundrel, scout, or soldier) and Intelligence
modifier. A character must choose his or her trained skills from a larger list
of class skills, as shown in Table 4-1: Trained Skills by Class.

For example, Rorworr (a 1st-level Wookiee scout) gets 5 trained skills
for being a scout. Since his Intelligence score is 12, he gets 1 additional
trained skill, for a total of 6 trained skills. These skills must be selected from
the scout's list of class skills. Rorworr selects Climb, Initiative, Mechanics,
Perception, Pilot, and Stealth as his trained skills.

MAKING SKILL CHECKS

When your character makes a skill check, roll 1d20 and add one-half your
character level + your key ability modifier + any miscellaneous modifiers +
5 (if the character is trained in the skill). Success depends on the difficulty
of the task at hand.

Example: Rorworr, a 1st-level Wookiee scout with an Intelligence of 12,
tries to open the lock on an Imperial detention cell to free an imprisoned
Rebel operative. First he attempts a Mechanics check. Rorworr is trained in
the skill, so he can attempt the check (Mechanics skill checks cannot be made
untrained). He rolls 1d20 and adds one-half his level (+0), his Intelligence
modifier (+1), and his trained skill bonus (+5). He gets a 13. Unfortunately,
the GM knows that the lock on the cell door as a DC of 15. Having failed his
check and pressed for time, Rorworr shoots the lock with his blaster.

ADVANCING SKILLS

Since a character's skill modifiers are based on character level, they automati-
cally increase as the character gains levels. When a character reaches 2nd
level, all of his skill modifiers—in both trained and untrained skills—increase
by 1. A character's skill modifiers can also be increased by other means.

TYPES OF
SKILL CHECKS

When you use a skill, you make a skill check to see how well you do. The higher
the result on your skill check, the better you do. Based on the circumstances,
your result must equal or exceed a particular number (a DC or the result of
an opposed skill check) for you to use the skill successfully. The harder the
task, the higher the number you need to roll.

Circumstances can affect your check. If you're free to work without
distractions, you can make a careful attempt and avoid simple mistakes. If
you have lots of time, you can try over and over again, assuring that you
eventually succeed. If others help you, you may succeed where otherwise
you would fail.

OPPOSED CHECK

Some skill checks are opposed checks. They are made against a randomized
number, usually another character's skill check result. For example, to sneak
up on a guard, you need to beat the guard's Perception check result with your
Stealth check result. You make a Stealth check, and the GM makes a Perception
check for the guard. Whoever scores the higher result wins the contest.

For ties on opposed checks, the character with the higher skill modifier
wins. For instance, if a Stealth check opposed by a Perception check results in
a tie, the sneaker's Stealth check modifier would be compared to the noticer's
Perception check modifier. If those scores are the same, roll again.

CHECK AGAINST A

DIFFICULTY CLASS (DC)

Some checks are made against a Difficulty Class (DC). The DC is a number
set by the GM (using the skill rules as a guideline) that you must score as a
result on your skill check to succeed. For example, climbing the outer wall
of a ruined warehouse may have a DC of 15. To climb the wall, you must get
a result of 15 or better on a Climb check.

UNTRAINED CHECKS

Some skills can be used only if you are trained in the skill. If you don't have
Use the Force, for example, regardless of your class, ability scores, and expe-
rience level, you just don't know enough about using the Force to attempt
to manipulate it consciously. Skills that can't be used untrained are marked
with a “No” in the “Untrained” column on Table 4-2: Skills.

TRYING AGAIN

In general, you can try a skill check again if you fail, and you can keep trying
indefinitely. Many skills, however, have natural consequences for failing that
must be accounted for. Some skills can't be tried again once a check has
failed for a particular task. For most skills, when a character has succeeded
at a given task, additional successes are meaningless.

For example, if Deel Surool misses a Mechanics check to open a mechani-
cal lock, he can try again and keep trying. If, however, an alarm sounds
when the Mechanics check is missed by 5 or more, then failing has its own
penalty.

Similarly, if Rorworr misses a Climb check, he can keep trying, but if he
misses by 5 or more, he falls (after which he can get up and try again if the
fall wasn't too far or too painful).


--- Page 60 ---
NUMBER OF

Acrobatics, Endurance, Initiative, Knowledge (all skills, taken individually), Perception, Pilot, Use the Force

v

CLASS TRAINED SKILLS CLASS SKILLS

Jedi 2 + Int modifier

Noble 6 + Int modifier Deception, Gather Information, Initiative, Knowledge (all skills, taken individually),
Perception, Persuasion, Pilot, Ride, Treat Injury, Use Computer

Scoundrel 4 + Int modifier Acrobatics, Deception, Gather Information, Initiative, Knowledge (all skills, taken individually),
Mechanics, Perception, Persuasion, Pilot, Stealth, Use Computer

Scout 5 + Int modifier Climb, Endurance, Initiative, Jump, Knowledge (all skills, taken individually),
Mechanics, Perception, Pilot, Ride, Stealth, Survival, Swim

Soldier 3 + Int modifier

If a skill carries no penalty for failure, you can take 20 and assume that
you keep trying until you eventually succeed (see Checks without Rolls,
page 60).

REROLLING

Some species traits, talents, and other special abilities allow you to reroll a
skill check. You must declare that you are using this option immediately after
making the check but before any effects are resolved. Furthermore, you must
accept the result of the reroll, even if it is worse. For all purposes, the result
of the reroll is treated as the real result of your skill check.

Keeping the Better Result: Some species traits, talents, and other special
abilities are more flexible, allowing you to reroll but keep the better of the
two results. In most cases, this is more restricted and only available a limited
number of times per day (such as the Knack talent, page 46) or requires you
to spend a Force Point (such as the Force Power Adept talent, page 214). As
always, you must declare that you are using this option immediately after
making the check but before any effects are resolved.

Multiple Rerolls: Sometimes you have more than one species trait, talent,
or other special ability that allows you to reroll the same skill check. In this
case, you may choose to take each reroll one at a time in whatever order you
wish, resolving each one before deciding whether to use another.

For example, a Cerean scoundrel makes an Initiative check. Dissatisfied with
the result, he decides to use the Cerean species trait that allows him to reroll his
Initiative check, keeping the new result. Unfortunately, the second roll is even
worse, so he decides to use the Knack talent (page 46) to reroll one more time,
this time keeping the better of the second and third rolls. Alternatively, he could
have opted to use Knack first, keeping the better of the first and second rolls,
and then (if necessary) use his Cerean species trait to roll a third time, keeping
the third result instead of the better of the first two.

Climb, Endurance, Initiative, Jump, Knowledge (tactics), Mechanics, Perception, Pilot, Swim, Treat Injury, Use Computer

FAVORABLE AND
UNFAVORABLE
CiRCUMSTANCES

Some situations may make a skill easier or harder to use, resulting in a bonus
or penalty to the skill modifier for the skill check, or a change to the skill
check's DC. It's one thing for Kelko, a Rodian scout, to hunt down enough
food to eat while he's camping for the day on the forest moon of Endor,
using a Survival check. Foraging for food while crossing 100 kilometers of
Tatooine's Jundland Wastes is an entirely different matter.

The GM can alter the odds of success in four ways to take into account
exceptional circumstances:

e Give the skill user a +2 circumstance bonus to represent circumstances
that improve performance, such as having the perfect tool for the job,
getting help from another character (see Combining Skill Attempts,
page 61), or possessing unusually accurate information.

© Give the skill user a -2 circumstance penalty to represent circumstances
that hamper performance, such as being forced to use improvised tools
or possessing misleading information.

© Reduce the DC by 2 (or assign penalties to an opposed check) to repre-
sent circumstances that make the task easier, such as having a friendly
audience or performing work that doesn't have to be perfect.

e Increase the DC by 2 (or add bonuses to an opposed check) to represent
circumstances that make the task harder, such as having a hostile audi-
ence or performing work that must be flawless.

Circumstances that affect your ability to perform the skill change your
skill modifier. Circumstances that modify how well you have to perform the

SIWAS

Al SStcdvyHg



--- Page 61 ---
Al HsLavHS

skill to succeed change the DC. A bonus on your skill modifier and a reduction
in the check's DC have the same result—they create a better chance that
you will succeed. But they represent different circumstances, and sometimes
that difference is important.

For example, Deel Surool the Twi'lek scoundrel wants to befriend a group
of Trandoshan thugs drinking in a cantina. Before beginning his performance,
Deel listens to the Trandoshans so that he can judge their mood. Doing so
improves his chances of taking the right approach when introducing himself,
giving him a +2 bonus to the skill modifier for his Persuasion check. The Tran-
doshans are in a good mood because they recently received a sizable payoff,
so the GM reduces the bonus they receive for an indifferent attitude to +0.
(Deel's attempt at diplomacy isn't better just because the Trandoshans are in
a good mood, so he does not get a bonus to add into his skill modifier.)

However, the leader of the gang, a Human bounty hunter, has been unable
to locate the Wookiee he's tracking, and he's suspicious of Deel. (Didn't the
datafile suggest the Wookiee was often seen in the company of a Twi'lek?)
He gains a +2 bonus to his Will Defense to resist being persuaded (in addition
to the normal +2 for being indifferent).

Deel rolls a 6 and adds +8 for his skill modifier (including +2 for his
impromptu research). His result is 14. The Trandoshans have a Will Defense
of 13, so Deel's skill check result is high enough to shift their attitudes to
friendly, but not their leader (Will Defense 16). The Trandoshans applaud Deel
Surool and offer to buy him drinks, but their leader eyes him suspiciously.

TIME AND
SKILL CHECKS

A skill's description tells you whether using a skill is a standard action, a
move action, a swift action, a full-round action, or a free action. Some skills
can take minutes or hours to use.

In general, using a skill that requires concentration (and thus distracts you
from being fully aware of what's going on around you) provokes an attack of
opportunity from an opponent if you are within that opponent's threatened
area when you attempt the skill check. See Attacks of Opportunity, page
155, for more information.

CHECKS WITHOUT
ROLLS

A skill check represents an attempt to accomplish some goal, usually in the
face of some sort of time pressure or distraction. Sometimes, though, you
can use a skill under more favorable circumstances and eliminate the luck
factor.

TAKING 10

When you're not in a rush and not being threatened or distracted, you may
choose to take 10. Instead of rolling 1d20 for the skill check, calculate your
result as if you had rolled a 10 (an average roll on a d20). For many relatively
routine tasks, taking 10 results in a success.

Distractions, threats, and danger make it impossible for a character to
take 10. You also can't take 10 when using a skill untrained, though the GM
may allow exceptions for truly routine activities.

Example: Rorworr the Wookiee has a Climb skill modifier of +10. The
steep, rocky slope he's climbing has a DC of 15. With a little care, he can take
10 and succeed automatically. But partway up the slope, a bounty hunter
begins taking blaster shots at him from up above. Rorworr needs to make a
Climb check to reach the bounty hunter, and this time he can't take 10. He

must make the skill check normally while under attack.

TAKING 20

When you have plenty of time (generally 2 minutes for a skill that can nor-
mally be checked in 1 round), and when the skill being attempted carries no
penalty for failure, you can take 20. Taking 20 represents making multiple
rolls, assuming that eventually you will roll a 20. Instead of rolling 1d20 for
the skill check, calculate the result as if you had rolled a 20. Taking 20 means
you keep trying until you get it right. Taking 20 takes twenty times as long
as making a single check.

Example: Rorworr comes to a cliff face. He takes 10 to make the climb,
for a result of 20 (10 plus his +10 skill modifier). However, the DC is 23, and
the GM tells him that he fails to make progress up the cliff. (His check result
is at least high enough that he doesn't fall.) Rorworr can’t take 20 because
there is a penalty associated with failure (falling, in this case).

Later, Rorworr finds a small bunker in the cliffside and searches it. The
GM notes in the Perception skill description that each 1-square area takes
a full-round action to search (and she secretly assigns a DC of 15 to the
attempt). She estimates that the floors, walls, and ceiling of the bunker make
up about twenty squares (about 45 square meters), so she tells Rorworr's
player that it takes 2 minutes to search the whole bunker. Rorworr rolls 1d20
and adds his +5 skill modifier. The result of 11 fails. Now Rorworr declares
that he is going to search the bunker high and low, for as long as it takes.
The GM takes the original time of 2 minutes and multiplies it by 20, for 40
minutes. That's how long it takes Rorworr to search the whole bunker in
exacting detail. Now Rorworr's player treats his roll as if it were 20, for a
result of 25. That's more than enough to beat the DC of 15, and Rorworr
finds a datapad discarded in a waste disposal unit.


--- Page 62 ---
COMBINING SKILL
ATTEMPTS

When more than one character tries the same skill at the same time and for
the same purpose, their efforts may overlap.

INDIVIDUAL EVENTS
Often, several characters attempt some action, and each succeeds or fails
on his or her own.

For example, Rorworr and each of his companions need to climb a slope
to get to the top. Regardless of Rorworr's result, the other characters need
successful checks, too. Every character makes a skill check.

COOPERATION

Sometimes the individual heroes react to the same circumstance, and they
can work together to help each other out. In this case, one hero is considered
the leader of the effort and makes a skill check while each helper makes a
skill check against DC 10. (You can't take 10 on this check.) For each helper
who succeeds, the leader gets a +2 circumstance bonus (as per the rule for
favorable circumstances). In many cases, a character's help won't be benefi-
cial, or only a limited number of characters can help at the same time. The
GM limits cooperation as she sees fit for the circumstances.

For instance, if Kelko has been badly wounded, Vor'en Kurn can try a Treat
Injury check to keep him from dying. One other character can help Vor'en. If
the other hero makes a Treat Injury check against DC 10, then Vor'en gets a
+2 bonus on the Treat Injury check he makes to help Kelko. The GM rules that
two characters can't help Vor'en at the same time because a third person
would just get in the way.

Cooperation may not require all the characters to make the same skill
check. If Kelko and Deel Surool try to find information about an illegal busi-
ness on a Hutt's datapad, only one can make a Use Computer check. While
Kelko is actually checking the datapad, Deel Surool realizes his Knowledge
(business) may be able to give hints on what to look for. Surool can make
a DC 10 Knowledge (business) check to give Kelko a +2 bonus to his Use
Computer check.

ABILITY CHECKS
Sometimes you try to do something to which no specific skill applies. In
these cases, you make an ability check: Roll 1d20 and apply the appropriate
ability modifier. The GM assigns a DC, or sets up an opposed check when
two characters are engaged in a contest using one ability against another.
The character who rolls highest acts first.

In some cases, a test of one's ability doesn't involve luck. Just as you
wouldn't make a height check to see who is taller, you don't make a Strength

check to see who is stronger. When two characters arm wrestle, for example,
the stronger character simply wins. In the case of identical scores, then make
opposed Strength checks.

EXAMPLE ABILITY CHECK KEY ABILITY
Forcing open a jammed or locked door Strength
Tying a rope Dexterity
Holding one's breath Constitution
Navigating a maze Intelligence
Remembering to lock a door Wisdom
Getting yourself noticed in a crowd Charisma

SKILL DESCRIPTIONS

This section describes each skill, including common uses and typical modi-
fiers. Characters can sometimes use skills for other purposes than those listed
here. For example, you might be able to impress the members of a starfighter
squadron by making a Pilot check.

Here is the format for skill descriptions. Headings that do not apply to a
particular skill are omitted in that skill's description.

SKILL NAME (KEY ABILITY)
Trained Only; Armor Check Penalty
The skill name line and the line beneath it include the following information.

Key Ability: The abbreviation for the ability whose modifier applies to
the skill check.

Trained Only: If “Trained Only" appears on the line beneath the skill name,
you must be trained in that skill to use it. If “Trained Only” is omitted, the
skill can be used untrained except for some uses. If any special notes apply
to trained or untrained use, they are covered in the Special section.

Armor Check Penalty: If "Armor Check Penalty” appears on the line
beneath the skill name, a character takes a penalty on skill checks made with
this skill if he's wearing armor with which he is not proficient. The size of the
armor check penalty depends on the type of armor: light, -2; medium, —5; or
heavy, -10. For example, Rorworr the Wookiee scout is proficient with light
armor only. If he attempts to swim in medium armor, he takes a -5 armor
check penalty on his Swim check.

Retry: Any circumstances that apply to successive attempts to use
the skill successfully. If this paragraph is omitted, the skill check can
be tried again without any inherent penalty other than consuming
additional time.

Special: Any special notes that apply, such as rules regarding untrained
use and whether or not you can take 10 or take 20 when using the skill.

Time: How much time it takes to make a check with this skill, if that
information hasn't already been covered elsewhere.

0
I
>
)|0
4
5
2
} (SP



--- Page 63 ---
lt LaLa aaa...

USE ARMOR CHECK
SKILL (KEY ABILITY) UNTRAINED? PENALTY? JEDI NOBLE SCOUNDREL SCOUT SOLDIER
Acrobatics (Dex) Yes! Yes ¢C - Cc - _
Climb (Str) Yes Yes - - = Cc c
Deception (Cha) ‘ Yes No - Cc ¢ - -
Endurance (Con) Yes Yes C - - Cc Cc
Gather Information (Cha) Yes No - €C (e - -
Initiative (Dex) Yes Yes Cc Cc Cc Cc ¢
Jump (Str) Yes Yes = - - ic c
Knowledge (Int) “Yes! No c Cc Cc Cc Ce
Mechanics (Int) No No - - Cc C Cc
Perception (Wis) Yes! No C c e G ¢
0 Persuasion (Cha) Yes No - G € - -
> Pilot (Dex) Yes! No cc Cc C Cc C
4 Ride (Dex) Yes Yes x c = Cc =
2 Stealth (Dex) Yes Yes = - (e e -
< Survival (Wis) Yes! No = 2 = Cc -
Swim (Str) Yes Yes - - Cc Cc
@ ] Treat Injury (Wis) Yes! No - Cc ~ - C
w Use Computer (Int) Yes! No - Cc Cc - Cc
ig i Use the Force (Cha)? Yes! No g - - - -
0) C Class skill VY
1 Some uses of the skill require that you be trained in the skill.

2 Knowledge (tactics) only.
3 Any character with the Force Sensitivity feat treats Use the Force as a class skill.

or unstable, increase the DC by 5. A failed check means you fall prone and Y

ACROBATICS (DE~x) ;
must make a DC 15 Reflex save to catch the ledge or wire.

Armor Check Penalty
You can move at normal speed across difficult terrain, keep your balance

while walking on a narrow surface, take less damage from a fall, slip free NARROW SURFACE ACROBATICS oc
of restraints or a grappling foe, and get up from prone safely. In addition to 8-15 cm wide 10
the specific options listed below, you can use Acrobatics to perform typical 4-7 cm wide ; 1S

Less than 4 cm wide 20

tumbling, flipping, or gymnastic maneuvers.

Balance: A successful Acrobatics check allows you to move at half speed
along a narrow surface such as a ledge or wire. The DC of the Acrobatics check
varies with the width of the surface (see below). If the surface is slippery

You are considered flat-footed while balancing, and thus you lose your
Dexterity bonus to your Reflex Defense (if any). If you are trained in Acro-
batics, you aren't considered flat-footed while balancing.


--- Page 64 ---
If you take damage while balancing, you must immediately make another
Acrobatics check against the same DC to keep from falling.

Cross Difficult Terrain (Trained Only): With a successful DC 15 Acrobat-
ics check, you can move through difficult terrain at your normal speed.

Escape Bonds: With a successful Acrobatics check, you can slip free of
restraints (DC varies; see table below), wriggle through a tight space (DC
20), or escape from a grapple (DC = the grappler's grapple check). The DC to
slip free of a restraint depends on the type of restraint (see table).

It takes an attack action to escape a grapple. It takes a full-round action
to escape a net or to move 1 square through a tight space. It takes 1 minute
to escape from ropes, binder cuffs, or manacles.

RESTRAINT ACROBATICS DC

Ropes Opponent's Dex check + 10
Net 15

Binder cuffs 25

Fall Prone (Trained Only): If you are trained in Acrobatics and succeed
at a DC 15 check, you can drop to a prone position as a free action (instead
of a swift action).

Reduce Falling Damage (Trained Only): With a successful DC 15 Acro-
batics check, you can treat a fall as if it was 3 meters (2 squares) shorter when
determining damage. For every 10 points by which you beat this DC, you can
subtract an additional 3 meters from the fall for determining damage. If you
make this check and take no damage from the fall, you land on your feet.

If you are struck by a falling object, you can reduce the damage you
take by half with a successful DC 15 Acrobatics check (see Falling Objects,
page 254).

Stand Up from Prone (Trained Only): If you are trained in Acrobatics
and succeed at a DC 15 check, you can stand up from a prone position as a
swift action (instead of a move action).

Tumble (Trained Only): If you succeed at a DC 15 Acrobatics check, you
can tumble through the threatened area or fighting space of an enemy as
part of your move action without provoking an attack of opportunity. Each
threatened square or occupied square that you tumble through counts as 2
squares of movement.

Special: You can't take 10 or take 20 on an Acrobatics check.

If you are trained in Acrobatics, you gain a +2 dodge bonus to your Reflex
Defense when fighting defensively (see Fighting Defensively, page 152).

CuImMB (STR)

Armor Check Penalty

Use this skill to scale a cliff, to get to a window on the second story of a
building, or to climb up an antenna array after falling out of an airway at
the bottom of a floating city.

a 8 Al eaiavnD



--- Page 65 ---
Al Se34icvHgoD

SIS |

Climb Surface: With each successful Climb check, you can advance up,
down, or across a slope or a wall or other steep incline (or even a ceiling with
handholds). A slope is considered to be any incline of less than 60 degrees;
a wall is any incline of 60 degrees or steeper. You can climb at one-half of
your speed as a full-round action. You can move half that far—one-fourth
of your speed—as a move action.

A failed Climb check indicates that you make no progress, and a check
that fails by 5 or more means that you fall from whatever height you have
already attained.

The DC of the check depends on the circumstances of the climb:

DC EXAMPLE WALL OR SURFACE
O Slope too steep to walk up; knotted rope with a wall to brace
against.
5 Rope with a wall to brace against or a knotted rope, but not both.

10 Surface with ledges to hold on to and stand on, such as a very rough
wall.

15 Surface with adequate handholds and footholds (natural or artifi-
cial), such as a very rough natural rock surface or a tree; an unknot-
ted rope.

20 Uneven surface with some narrow handholds and footholds.

25 — Rough surface, such as a natural rock wall or a brick wall.

25. Overhang or ceiling with handholds but no footholds.

- Perfectly smooth, flat, vertical surface cannot be climbed.

-10" Climbing inside an air duct or other location where one can brace
against two opposite walls (reduces normal DC by 10).

-5* Climbing a corner where you can brace against perpendicular walls
(reduces normal DC by 5).

+5* Surface is slippery (increases normal DC by 5).

* These modifiers are cumulative; use any that apply.

Since you can't move to avoid an attack while climbing, opponents get
a +2 bonus on attack rolls against you, and you lose any Dexterity bonus to
your Reflex Defense.

Any time you take damage while climbing, make a Climb check against the
DC of the slope or wall. Failure means you fall from your current height and
sustain the appropriate falling damage (see Falling Damage, page 255).

Accelerated Climbing: You try to climb more quickly than normal, but
you take a -5 penalty on Climb checks. Accelerated climbing allows you
to climb at your full speed as a full-round action. You can move half that
far—one-half of your speed—as a move action.

Catching Yourself When Falling: It's practically impossible to catch
yourself on a wall while falling. Make a Climb check (DC = the wall's DC
+ 20) to do so. A slope is relatively easier to catch yourself on (DC = the
slope's DC + 10).

Making Handholds and Footholds: You can make your own handholds
and footholds by pounding pitons into a wall. Doing so takes 1 minute per
piton, and one piton is needed per meter. As with any surface with handholds
and footholds, a wall with pitons in it has a DC of 15. In the same way, a
climber with an ice axe or similar implement can cut handholds or footholds
in an ice wall.

Special: Someone using a rope can haul a character upward (or lower
the character) by means of sheer strength. Use the encumbrance rules (see
page 140) to determine how much weight a character can lift.

You can take 10 while climbing, but you can't take 20.

DECEPTION (CHA)

You can make the untrue seem true, the outrageous seem plausible, and the
nefarious seem ordinary. The skill encompasses conning, fast-talking, misdi-
rection, forgery, disguise, and outright lying. Use a Deception check to sow
temporary confusion, pass as someone you're not, get someone to turn his
head in the direction you point, or pass faked documents off as genuine.

Deceive: When you want to make another character believe something
that is untrue, you can attempt to deceive them. You can deceive a target in
one of two ways: by producing a deceptive appearance or by communicating
deceptive information.

Deceptive Appearance: When you produce a deceptive appearance,
such as disguising your appearance or producing forged documents, make
a Deception check opposed by the Perception check of any target that sees
the deception. If you succeed, that character believes that the appearance is
authentic. If you fail, the target detects the deception. Creating a deceptive
appearance requires at least 1 minute (10 rounds) for simple deceptions, 10
minutes for moderate deceptions, 1 hour for difficult deceptions, 1 day for
incredible deceptions, or 2 weeks (10 days) for outrageous deceptions. You
can rush and create the deception in less time (treating it as if it were one
step easier, to a minimum of simple), but you take a -10 penalty on your
Deception check. In all cases, make a single Deception check at the time
you create the deceptive appearance and compare your check result to the
Perception check of any character who encounters it.

Deceptive Information: When you communicate deceptive information,
such as telling a lie or distorting facts to lead the target to a false conclu-
sion, make a Deception check against the Will Defense of any target that
can understand you. If you succeed, the target believes that what you're
telling them is true. While most cases of deceptive information are either
verbal or written (requiring the target to be able to understand you), you
can deceive with gestures, body language, facial expressions, and so forth.
Communicating deceptive information requires at least a standard action
for simple deceptions, a full-round action for moderate deceptions, and 1
minute (10 rounds) or even more for difficult, incredible, or outrageous decep-
tions. You can rush and communicate your deception in less time (treating


--- Page 66 ---
nee LED

CHECK

DECEPTION MODIFIER DESCRIPTION

Simple +5 A simple deception works in the target's favor or matches the target's expectations, and it requires nothing you don't have on hand.
Simple deceptions include convincing a junk dealer to buy some stolen droids; disguising yourself as someone nonspecific of similar
size, species, and gender; and creating a false ID that will pass casual inspection but not careful scrutiny.

Moderate +0 A moderate deception is believable and doesn't affect the target much one way or the other, and you have most of the props you
need. Moderate deceptions include convincing a suspicious guard that you're not a thief; disguising yourself as a member of another
species or gender; and creating a false ID good enough to pass visual scrutiny but not electronic screening.

Difficult -5 A difficult deception is a little hard to believe, puts the target at some kind of risk, or undergoes scrutiny. Examples include convincing
a group of thugs that you're willing and able to beat them in a cantina fight, forging starship transponder codes, impersonating an
officer well enough to give troops orders, and creating false official documents good enough to pass electronic screening.

Incredible -10 An incredible deception is hard to believe, presents a sizable risk to the target, or requires passing intense scrutiny. Incredible
deceptions include convincing a reputable starship dealer to buy a stolen Imperial shuttle, impersonating someone well enough to
convince an old friend, and forging false credits.

Outrageous -20 An unlikely deception is almost too unlikely to consider or requires material you just don't have. Outrageous deceptions include

impersonating a Jedi (without any Force sensitivity) well enough to fool another Jedi, claiming to be the Emperor in disguise and
giving orders to stormtroopers, and forging important documents with no proper tools or examples to work with.

*WH, HAD A SLIGHT WEAPONS
MALFUNCTION BUT, UH... BYVYVERYTHING'S
PERFECTLY ALL RIGHT NOW. WE'RE FINE.
WE'RE ALL FINE HERE NOW. THANK YOU.

rFMOW ARE YOU?"

—- HAN SOLO

as if it were one step easier, to a minimum of simple), but you take a -10
penalty on your Deception check. If your deceptive information is written,
recorded, or otherwise preserved for later viewing, your original Deception
check result is compared to the Will Defense of all targets who later read
or observe your deception.

In some cases, you convey both a deceptive appearance and deceptive
information. For example, if you create a falsified document (such as an
official report, a letter from a senator, or orders from a military commander),
you have to produce something that looks authentic (deceptive appearance)
while also creating believable content (deceptive information). In this case,
make a single Deception check and compare it to both the target's Perception
check and Will Defense. Similarly, you might disguise yourself as an Imperial

general (deceptive appearance) and then give fake orders to a stormtrooper
(deceptive information). In this example, you make one Deception check
ahead of time to create the disguise and another Deception check at the
time you give the stormtrooper his new orders.

Favorable and unfavorable circumstances weigh heavily on the outcome
of a deception. Two circumstances can weigh against you: The deception is
hard to believe, or the action that the deception requires the target to take
goes against the target's self-interest, nature, personality, or orders.

If it's important, the GM can distinguish between a deception that fails
because the target doesn't believe it and one that fails because it just asks
too much of the target. For instance, if the deception demands something
risky of the target, and your Deception check fails by 10 or less, then the

Al e3iavHoS


--- Page 67 ---
PAL Saiaveo

target didn't so much see through the deception as prove reluctant to go
along with it even if he believes it's true. If your Deception check fails by 11
or more, he has seen through the deception (and would have done so even
if it had not placed any demand on him).

Asuccessful Deception check indicates that the target reacts as you wish,
at least for a short time, or the target believes something that you want him
to believe. For example, you could use a deception to put someone off guard
by telling him someone was behind him. At best, such a deception would
make the target glance over his shoulder. It would not cause the target
to ignore you and completely turn around. Alternatively, you could use a
deception to make a starship captain believe that he has orders to take his
vessel to Tatooine. If successful, the captain would carry out his new “orders”
even though that would take quite some time, but as soon as he encounters
contradictory information (such receiving contradictory orders from his real
commander, or arriving at Tatooine and discovering that no one sent for him)
he will realize that he has been fooled.

Creating a Diversion to Hide: You can use Deception to help you hide. A
successful Deception check that equals or exceeds the target's Will Defense
gives you the momentary diversion you need to attempt a Stealth check while
the target is aware of you (see the Stealth skill, page 72).

Feint: Make a Deception check as a standard action to set the DC of your
opponent's Initiative check. If you beat your opponent's roll, that target is
treated as flat-footed against the first attack you make against him in the
next round. You take a -5 penalty against non-humanoid creatures or against
creatures with an Intelligence lower than 3.

Retry: Generally, a failed Deception check makes the target too suspicious
for you to try another deception in the same circumstances. For feinting in
combat, you may retry freely.

Special: You can take 10 when making a deception (except for feinting
in combat), but you can't take 20.

Time: A deception takes at least a standard action, but can take much
longer if you try something elaborate. Disguises that require major changes
to your physical outline, or forged documents with many safeguards, can
take hours or even days.

ENDURANCE (CON)
Armor Check Penalty
You can push yourself beyond your normal physical limits.

Force March: Each hour of walking after 8 hours requires you to attempt
a DC 10 Endurance check (+2 per hour after the first). If you fail, you move
-1 persistent step along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). You
can only remove this persistent condition by resting for 8 hours.

Hold Breath: You can hold your breath for a number of rounds equal
to your Constitution score. After this period of time, you must succeed on
a DC 10 Endurance check in order to continue holding your breath. The DC
increases by +2 per additional round. If you fail, you must breathe or you

move -1 step on the condition track (see page 149). If you reach the bottom
of the condition track, you fall unconscious. If you are still unable to breathe
on your next turn after falling unconscious, you die.

Ignore Hunger: You can go without food for a number of days equal to
your Constitution modifier (minimum 1 day). After this time, you must suc-
ceed on an Endurance check each day or move -1 persistent step along the
condition track (see page 149). You can only remove this persistent condition
by eating a nutritious meal. The DC is 10 on the first day and increases by
+2 each day thereafter.

Ignore Thirst: You can go without water for a number of hours equal to
three times your Constitution score. After this time, you must succeed on
an Endurance check each hour or move -1 persistent step along the condi-
tion track (see page 149). You may only remove this persistent condition
by drinking at least 1 liter of water; for creatures that are not Medium size,
multiply the water required by 10 for every size category above Medium or
divide it by 10 for every size category below Medium. The DC is 10 on the
first day and increases by +2 each day thereafter.

Run: You can run as a full-round action. When you run, you can move
up to four times your speed in a straight line (or three times your speed in a
straight line if you are wearing heavy armor or carrying a heavy load). You
lose any Dexterity bonus to your Reflex Defense while you're running, since
you can't actively avoid attacks.

You can run for a number of rounds equal to your Constitution score with-
out any trouble. If you want to continue running after that, you must succeed
ona DC 10 Endurance check. You must check again each round in which you
continue to run, and the DC of the Endurance check increases by 1 for each
previous check you made. When you fail a check, you move -1 persistent step
on the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). You can only remove this
persistent condition by resting for the same length of time that you were
running. During this rest period, you can only move your speed.

Sleep in Armor: You can sleep while wearing armor by succeeding at an
Endurance check (DC 10 for light armor, DC 15 for medium armor, and DC
20 for heavy armor). If you fail, you don't sleep and move -1 persistent step
along the condition track (see page 149). You can only remove this persistent
condition by sleeping for 8 hours.

Swim/Tread Water: Each hour that you swim, you must succeed on a
DC 15 Endurance check or move -1 persistent step along the condition track
(see page 149). You can only remove this persistent condition by resting
(not swimming or treading water) for the same length of time that you were
swimming. Each consecutive hour of swimming increases the DC by +2. If
you are only treading water, reduce the DC by 5.


--- Page 68 ---
GATHER INFORMATION (CHA)
Use this skill to make contacts, learn local new stories and gossip, and
acquire secrets.

Learn News and Rumors: Major news stories and popular local rumors
can be unearthed with a DC 10 Gather Information check. Learning the
detailed, unclassified facts of a news story or determining the veracity of a
rumor requires a DC 20 check and 50 credits in bribes.

Learn Secret Information: “Secret information" includes anything
unavailable to the general public. Examples include a classified police report, a
hidden location, military blueprints, installation security procedures, and com-

puter access codes. Learning a piece of secret information typically requires a
DC 25 check and 5,000 credits in bribes; however, information that's especially
difficult to obtain (such as the technical blueprints of the Death Star) might
require a DC 30 or higher skill check and cost 50,000 credits or more, at the
GM's discretion. If the check fails by 5 or more, someone notices that you're
asking questions and comes to investigate, arrest, or silence you.

Locate Individual: Make a Gather Information check to locate a specific
individual—either someone you know by name or someone with the skill, item,
or information you need. The DC of the check is 15 if the target is relatively
easy to locate; if the target isn't well known or has taken strides to conceal

D7

y ¥

SL
ea

\

Al BSLtdvHo

SIww3saSs



--- Page 69 ---
0
I
>
v
‘dl
LW}
b)
<

SIWMAS

his or her presence and/or activities, the DC is 25 and the information costs
500 credits in bribes.

Special: You can take 10 on a Gather Information check, but you can't
take 20. A successful Persuasion check can reduce the monetary cost of a
Gather Information check (see the Persuasion skill, page 71).

Some information is beyond the reach of a Gather Information skill
check. For example, characters searching for Darth Vader won't find him by
speaking with tribes of Ewoks on the Forest Moon of Endor, no matter how
many Ewoks they question.

Time: Each Gather Information check represents 1d6 hours of time
spent talking to informants, scanning HoloNet news broadcasts, or perusing
information kiosks.

INITIATIVE (DEx)
Armor Check Penalty
Use this skill to gain the advantage in combat.

Start Battle: An Initiative check sets the order of combat when a fight
starts. Each character aware of the fight makes an Initiative check and goes
in order from highest to lowest.

When piloting a vehicle in combat, you must apply the vehicle's size modi-
fier to your Initiative check (see Table 10-1: Vehicle Sizes, page 166).

Avoid Feint: When an opponent attempts to feint in combat, you oppose
his Deception check with an Initiative check. If you meet or beat his check
result, his feint attempt fails.

Special: You can take 10 on an Initiative check, but you can't take 20.

JUMP (STR)

Armor Check Penalty

Use this skill to leap over pits, vault low fences, or jump down from a tree's
lowest branches.

Long Jump: The DC of a running long jump is equal to the distance
cleared (in meters) multiplied by 3. For example, clearing a 3-meter-wide
(2-square-wide) pit requires a successful DC 9 Jump check. If you do not
get at least a 4-square running start, the DC is doubled.

High Jump: The DC of a running high jump is equal to the distance cleared
(in meters) multiplied by 12. For example, landing atop a 1.5-meter-high
(1-square-high) ledge requires a successful DC 18 Jump check. If you use a
pole of sufficient height to help you vault the distance, the DC is halved. If
you do not get at least a 4-square running start, the DC is doubled.

Jump Down: If you intentionally jump down from a height, you can
attempt a DC 15 Jump check to take falling damage as if you had dropped 3
meters (2 squares) fewer than you actually did. If you succeed on this check
and take no damage, you land on your feet.

Special: You can take 10 when making a Jump check. If there is no danger
associated with failing, you can take 20. Distance covered by a long jump

or high jump counts against your maximum movement in a round; distance
covered by jumping down does not.

KNOWLEDGE (INT)

Knowledge encompasses a number of unrelated skills. Knowledge repre-
sents a study of some body of lore, possibly an academic or even scientific
discipline.

Each time you select Knowledge as a trained skill, you must choose a field
of study from the list below:

Bureaucracy: Business procedures, legal systems and regulations, and
organizational structures

Galactic lore: Planets, homeworlds, sectors of space, galactic history,
and the Force

Life sciences: Biology, botany, genetics, archaeology, xenobiology, medi-
cine, and forensics

Physical sciences: Astronomy, astrogation, chemistry, mathematics,
physics, and engineering

Social sciences: Sociology, psychology, philosophy, theology, and
criminology

Tactics: Techniques and strategies for disposing and maneuvering forces
in combat

Technology: Function and principle of technological devices, as well as
knowledge of cutting edge theories and advancements.

Common Knowledge: You can answer a basic question about a subject
related to your field of study with a DC 10 check. For example, a DC 10 Knowl-
edge (life sciences) check is enough to know that Rodians are skilled hunters.

Expert Knowledge (Trained Only): You can make a Knowledge check as
a swift action to answer a question within your field of study that requires
some level of expertise. The DC of the check ranges from 15 (for simple
questions) to 25 (for tough questions). The GM may adjust the DC depending
on the character's personal experience. For example, a DC 20 Knowledge
(galactic lore) check might reveal specific information about the inhabitants
of the planet Dathomir, but the DC may be lower if the character making the
check has actually been there.

Retry: No, you can't reroll a failed Knowledge check. The roll represents
what you know, and thinking about a topic a second time doesn't let you
know something you never learned in the first place.

Special: You can take 10 when making a Knowledge check, but you
can't take 20.

MECHANICS (INT)
Trained Only
You can bypass locks and traps, set and disarm explosives, fix malfunctioning
devices, and modify and repair damaged droids.

Disable Device (requires security kit): You can use this skill to disarm a
security device, defeat a lock or trap, or rig a device to fail when it is used.


--- Page 70 ---
The effort takes a full-round action, and the DC depends on the intricacy or
complexity of the item being disabled or sabotaged, as shown below:

DEVICE DC* EXAMPLES

Simple 15 Sabotage a mechanical device, jam a blaster, bypass a
basic mechanical lock

Tricky 20 Sabotage an electronic device, bypass a basic electronic
lock

Complex 25 Disarm an electronic security system, bypass a complex

mechanical or electronic lock
* lf you attempt to leave behind no trace of the tampering, increase the DC
by 5.

If the Mechanics check fails by 5 or more, something goes wrong. If it's
a trap, you spring it. If it's some sort of sabotage, you think the device is
disabled, but it still works normally.

Handle Explosives: Setting a simple explosive to blow up at a certain
spot doesn't require a check, but connecting and setting a detonator does.
Also, placing an explosive for maximum effect against a structure calls for
a check, as does disarming an explosive device.

Setting a detonator, placing an explosive device, or disarming an explosive
device is a full-round action.

Set Detonator: Most explosives require a detonator to go off. Connecting
a detonator to an explosive requires a DC 10 check. Failure means that the
explosive fails to go off as planned. Failure by 10 or more means the explosive
goes off as the detonator is being installed.

You can make an explosive difficult to disarm. To do so, you choose the
disarm DC before making your check to set the detonator (it must be higher
than 10). Your DC to set the detonator is equal to the disarm DC - 5. For
example, you might decide to make the disarm DC 20. The DC to set the deto-
nator and disarm the explosive becomes 15 (instead of the normal 10).

Place Explosive Device: Carefully placing an explosive against a fixed
structure or vehicle (a stationary, unattended inanimate object) increases
the damage dealt by exploiting weaknesses in its construction. The GM
makes the check (so that you don't know exactly how well you've done). One

V

a result of 15 or higher, you ignore the damage reduction of any object to
which the explosives are attached. On a result of 25 or higher, the explosive
deals double damage to the structure or vehicle against which it's placed. On
a result of 35 or higher, it deals triple damage. In all cases, it deals normal
damage to all other targets within its burst radius.

Disarm Explosive Device (requires a security kit): Disarming an explosive
that has been set to go off requires a check. The DC is usually 15, unless
the one who set the detonator chose a higher disarm DC (see Set Detonator
above). If you fail the check, you do not disarm the explosive. If you fail it
by 5 or more, the explosive detonates while you are adjacent to it.

Al e3iavHo

@)
w
(ir
fr
o)



--- Page 71 ---
Al BStadvHgoa

Jury-Rig: You can make temporary repairs to any disabled mechanical
or electronic device, from a simple tool to a complex starship component.
Jury-rigging is a full-round action and requires a successful DC 25 check.
If you use a tool kit, you gain a +5 equipment bonus on the check. A jury-
rigged device gains +2 steps on the condition track. At the end of the scene
or encounter, the jury-rigged device moves -5 steps along the track and
becomes disabled again. (See Conditions, page 148.)

Modify Droid (requires tool kit): You can make a Mechanics check to
modify a droid (see Modifying Droids, page 197).

Recharge Shields: When acting as the shield operator on a vehicle or
operating a device with a shield rating, you can spend three swift actions
on the same turn or on consecutive turns to make a DC 20 Mechanics check
to recharge the vehicle's shields. If successful, you restore 5 points to its
shield rating, up to its normal maximum.

Regulate Power: When acting as the engineer on a vehicle or operating a
device, you can spend three swift actions to make a DC 20 Mechanics check
to regulate its power. If you are successful, the vehicle moves +1 step on the
condition track (see Conditions, page 148).

Repair (requires tool kit): You can repair a damaged or disabled droid
or object (including devices and vehicles). This requires at least 1 hour of
work, at the end of which time you must make a Mechanics check. Only one
character may repair a given droid or object at a time, but other characters
may use the aid another action to assist (see page 151).

Repair Droid (requires a tool kit): You can spend 1 hour and make a
DC 20 Mechanics check to repair a damaged or disabled droid, restoring
hit points equal to the droid's character level and removing any persistent
conditions currently affecting the droid. A droid can attempt to repair itself,
but it takes a -5 penalty on its skill check.

Repair Object: You can spend 1 hour and make a DC 20 Mechanics check
to repair a damaged or disabled object, restoring 1d8 hit points and removing
any persistent conditions currently affecting the device or vehicle. If you are
on board a damaged vehicle while you attempt to repair it, apply any penalties
from the vehicle's position on the condition track on your Mechanics check.
(Major vehicle repairs are best attempted in a garage, hangar, dry dock, or
other specialized facility.)

Retry: You can usually retry a Mechanics check. In some specific cases,
however, a failed Mechanics check has negative ramifications that prevent
repeated checks (see Disable Device, above, for example).

Special: You can take 10 or take 20 on a Mechanics check. When making
a Mechanics check to accomplish a jury-rig repair, you can't take 20.

PERCEPTION (Wis)
Use this skill to perceive threats as well as your surroundings.

The distance between you and whatever you're trying to perceive affects
your Perception check, as do solid barriers and concealment.

Avoid Surprise: A Perception check made at the start of a battle deter-
mines whether or not you are surprised (see Surprise, page 149). A Perception
check made to avoid surprise is a reaction.

Eavesdrop: A DC 10 Perception check allows you to eavesdrop on a
conversation. You must be able to understand the language being spoken.
The DC increases to 15 in relatively noisy areas (such as a cantina) or 25 in
particularly loud areas (such as a droid factory). Eavesdropping on a con-
versation is a standard action.

Hear Distant or Ambient Noises: A DC 10 Perception check allows you
to detect and identify distant or ambient noises. Actively listening for distant
or ambient noises is a standard action.

Notice Targets: A Perception check lets you hear or spot other targets or
detect someone or something sneaking up on you from behind. If the target is
actively attempting to remain undetected, your Perception check is opposed
by the target's Stealth check. If the target is not making any special effort to
avoid detection, the Perception check DC is determined by the target's size:
Colossal, DC -15; Gargantuan, DC -10; Huge, DC -5; Large, DC 0; Medium,
DC 5; Small, DC 10; Tiny, DC 15; Diminutive, DC 20; Fine, DC 25.

For every 10 squares of distance between you and the target, you take
a -5 penalty on your Perception check. You also take a -5 penalty if the
target has concealment or cover, or a -10 penalty if it has total conceal-
ment or total cover.

Detecting a target that enters your line of sight is a reaction. Actively
looking or listening for hidden enemies (including those to whom you do not
have a line of sight) is a standard action.

You can also notice if a character has a concealed weapons or objects.
Make a Perception check opposed by the target's Stealth check result. If
you win the opposed check, you notice the concealed object. If you win the
opposed check by 5 or more, you can tell what kind of object is concealed
(for example, distinguishing a blaster from a datapad).

Search: You can carefully examine a 1-square area or a 1-cubic-meter
volume of goods as a full-round action. A DC 15 Perception check allows you
to find clues, hidden compartments, secret doors, traps, irregularities, and
other details not readily apparent within that area. The GM may increase
the DC for especially obscure well-hidden features.

You can also search a character for concealed weapons or objects. Make
a Perception check opposed by the target's Stealth check result. If you win
the opposed check, you find the concealed object. You receive a +10 circum-
stance bonus on your Perception check if you physically touch the target to
search for concealed items; this requires a full-round action and can only
be used on a willing, pinned, or helpless target.

Sense Deception: You can use Perception to see through deceptive
appearances made using the Deception skill. If your Perception check meets
or exceeds the result of the Deception check, you realize that you're being
deceived. Your Perception check to sense the deception is a reaction.


--- Page 72 ---
a

ATTITUDE THE CREATURE...

Hostile Takes risks to harm you, usually attacking on sight

Unfriendly Wishes you ill but won't go out of its way to harm you

Indifferent Regard you as neither a threat nor an ally and probably doesn't attack you
Friendly Wishes you well but won't take life-threatening risks on your behalf
Helpful Take risks to help you

Sense Influence: Make a Perception check to determine whether someone
is under the influence of a mind-affecting Force power or other method of
coercion (assuming the effect isn't obvious). This requires a full-round action
and a successful DC 20 check.

Retry: You can make a Perception check every time you have the opportunity
to notice something as a reaction. As a swift action, you may attempt to see or
hear something that you failed (or believe you failed) to notice previously.

Special: You can take 10 or take 20 when making a Perception check.
Taking 20 means you spend 2 minutes attempting to notice something that
may or may not be there.

PERSUASION (CHA)
You can influence others with your tact, subtlety, and social grace, or you
can threaten them into being more cooperative.

Change Attitude: As a full-round action, you can make a Persuasion
check to adjust the attitude of a creature with an Intelligence of 2 or higher
using words, body language, or a combination of the two. The target must be
able to see you. Apply a modifier to the check based on the target's current
attitude toward you: hostile -10, unfriendly -5, indifferent -2, friendly +0
(see Table 4-4: Attitude Steps). If the check equals or exceeds the target's
Will Defense, the target's attitude shifts one step in your favor. If the target
creature cannot understand your speech, apply a -5 penalty on your Per-
suasion check. You may attempt to change the attitude of a given creature
only once per encounter.

Haggle: Whenever you use the Gather Information skill, you can make a
Persuasion check as a swift action to reduce by half the amount you must
pay to acquire the information you desire. Conversely, you can use this skill
as a full-round action to increase or reduce the sell price of a desired item
by 50%. The DC depends on the attitude of the individual (or individuals)
with whom you're dealing: unfriendly DC 30, indifferent DC 25, friendly DC
20, helpful DC 15. You can't haggle with creatures that are hostile toward
you or creatures that have an Intelligence of 2 or lower. No matter how adept
you are at haggling, a creature won't pay more for an item that can easily
be obtained elsewhere for the standard listed price.

Intimidate: As a full-round action, you can make a Persuasion check to
force a single creature with an Intelligence of 1 or higher to back down from
a confrontation, surrender one of its possessions, reveal a piece of secret
information, or flee from you for a short time. The creature must be able to
see you. Your check result must equal or exceed the target's Will Defense
for the intimidation attempt to succeed. Apply a modifier to the check based
on the threat the target perceives from you:

SITUATION MODIFIER
Target is helpless or completely,at your mercy +5
Target is clearly outnumbered or disadvantaged +0
Target is evenly matched with you -5
You are clearly outnumbered or disadvantaged -10
You are helpless or completely at the target's mercy -15

You can't force the target to obey your every command or do something
that endangers its life or the lives of its allies. A creature you successfully
intimidate becomes one step more hostile toward you as soon as you are no
longer an imminent threat (see Table 4-4: Attitude Steps).

Retry: If you fail a Persuasion check, you cannot make any further Per-
suasion checks against the targeted creature for 24 hours.

Special: You can take 10 on a Persuasion check, but you can't take 20.

Pitot (Dex)
Use this skill to operate a vehicle. Basic operation of a vehicle does not
require a skill check or special training, but performing evasive maneuvers
and difficult stunts does.

Whenever you make a Pilot check, you must apply the vehicle's size modi-
fier to your check (see Table 10-1: Vehicle Sizes, page 166).

Avoid Collision: You can make a DC 15 Pilot check as a reaction to reduce
or negate the damage from a collision (see Avoid Collision, page 173).

Dogfight: When operating a flying vehicle, you can make a Pilot check as
a standard action to engage in a dogfight (see Dogfight, page 171).



--- Page 73 ---
Al BSidvHga

Engage the Enemy (Trained Only): When piloting a vehicle in combat,
you can choose to make a Pilot check instead of an Initiative check to deter-
mine your place in the initiative order.

Increase Vehicle Speed (Trained Only): You may make a DC 20 Pilot
check as a swift action to make your vehicle perform beyond its normal
limits. (You can't take 10 on this check.) If the check fails, your vehicle's
speed does not increase, and your vehicle moves -1 step on the condition
track (see Conditions, page 148). If you succeed, your vehicle's speed
increases by 1 square until the start of your next turn. For every 5 points
by which you exceed the DC, your vehicle's speed increases by an additional
1 square.

Ram: You can make a Pilot check as part of a full-round action to collide
intentionally with a target (see Ram, page 172).

Special: You can take 10 when making a Pilot check except when attempt-
ing to increase a vehicle's speed. You can't take 20 on a Pilot check.

Ripe (Dex)

Armor Check Penalty

Use this skill to ride any kind of mount, such as a tauntaun, dewback, or
bantha.

Ride Mount: Typical riding actions don't require checks. You can saddle,
mount, ride, and dismount without a problem. Mounting or dismounting an
animal is a move action. Some tasks, such as those undertaken in combat
or other extreme circumstances, require checks. In addition, attempting
trick riding or convincing the animal to do something unusual also requires
a check.

RIDING TASK pc
Guide with knees 10
Stay in saddle 10
Cover 15
Soft fall 15
Leap 15
Control mount in battle 20

Fast mount or dismount 20°

* Armor check penalty applies.

Control Mount in Battle: As a move action, you can attempt to control
a mount while in combat. If you fail, you can do nothing else that round. You
do not need to roll for riding animals specifically trained for battle.

Fast Mount or Dismount: You can mount or dismount as a swift action.
If you fail the check, mounting or dismounting is a move action. (You can't
attempt a fast mount or dismount unless you can perform the mount or
dismount as a move action this round, should the check fail.)

Guide with Knees: You can react instantly to guide your mount with
your knees so that you can use both hands in combat or to perform some

other action. Make the check at the start of your round. If you fail, you can
only use one hand this round because you need to use the other to control
your mount.

Leap: You can get your mount to leap obstacles as part of its movement.
Use your Ride skill modifier or the mount's Jump skill modifier, whichever is
lower, to see how far the mount can jump (see the Jump skill, page 68). A
DC 15 Ride check is required to stay on the mount when it leaps.

Soft Fall: You react instantly when you fall off a mount, such as when it
is killed or when it falls, to try to avoid taking damage. If you fail, you take
1d6 points of falling damage (see Falling Damage, page 255).

Stay in Saddle: You can react instantly to try to avoid falling when your
mount rears or bolts unexpectedly or when you take damage.

Use Mount as Cover: You can react instantly to drop down and hang
alongside your mount, using it as one-half cover. You can't attack while using
your mount as cover. If you fail, you don't get the cover benefit.

Special: You can take 10 when making a Ride check, but you can't take 20.

Time: Ride is a move action, except when otherwise noted for the special
tasks listed above.

STEALTH (DEx)

Armor Check Penalty

Use this skill to slink past a sentry without being heard, catch your enemy
off-guard, snipe from a concealed location, or perform sleight of hand.

Sneak: Your Stealth check sets the DC for Perception checks made to
notice you. If an opponent's Perception check equals or exceeds your Stealth
check, your opponent notices you.

Any circumstance that hampers your ability to sneak imposes a -2 penalty
on your check, while favorable circumstances grant a +2 bonus. For example,
sneaking across a surface littered with debris imposes a -2 penalty on your
Stealth check, while a room filled with abundant hiding places grants a +2
bonus on your check.

If you move more than your speed in any given round, you take a -5
penalty on your Stealth check. If you move more than twice your speed in
any given round, you take a -10 penalty on your Stealth check.

Your size provides a modifier to your Stealth checks: Fine, +20; Diminutive,
+15; Tiny, +10; Small, +5; Medium, +0; Large, -5; Huge, -10; Gargantuan,
-15; Colossal, -20.

Conceal Item: As a standard action, you can attempt to conceal an item
(such as a weapon) on your person. The concealed object must be at least
one size smaller than you, and you get a modifier on your skill check based
on the object's relative size: One size smaller, -5; two sizes smaller, +0; three
sizes smaller, +5; four or more sizes smaller, +10.

Other characters may notice a concealed object with a successful Per-
ception check (opposed by your Stealth check result), but only if you do not
have total concealment. A character gains a +10 circumstance bonus on
his Perception check if he physically touches you to search for concealed


--- Page 74 ---
items; this requires a full-round action that can only be performed if you're
a willing, pinned, or helpless target.

Drawing a concealed item is a move action.

Create a Diversion to Hide: You can use the Deception skill (page 64)
to help you be stealthy. A successful Deception gives you the momentary
diversion you need to attempt a Stealth check even though people are aware
of you. While the others turn their attention from you, you can make a Stealth
check (as normal, and at no penalty) if you can reach a hiding place of some
kind as a move action.

Pick Pocket: With a successful Stealth check, you can pilfer a small,
hand-sized object from a target within reach. Your Stealth check is opposed
by the target's Perception check, and the target gains a +5 bonus. If you fail
by 4 or less, you are unable to take the item, but the target does not notice
the effort. If you fail by 5 or more, you are unable to take the item and the
target catches you in the act.

Sleight of Hand: You can palm hand-sized objects, perform minor feats
of legerdemain, or attempt to perform a minor action without being noticed
(such as flipping a switch, pulling out a thermal detonator, or drawing a
pistol under the cover of a table). All such efforts are opposed by observer's
Perception check. Any observer that beats your Stealth check notices the
action you attempted, and knows how you did it.

Snipe: After making a ranged attack from hiding, you can try to hide
again. You must be at least 2 squares from the target, and you must already
have successfully used Stealth to hide from the target. Make a new Stealth
check (as normal, but with a -10 penalty) as a move action. If you succeed,
you remain hidden; otherwise, your location is revealed.

Special: You can take 10 when making a Stealth check, but you can't
take 20.

SURVIVAL (Wis)
Use this skill to hunt and forage, guide a party safely through arid waste-
lands, identify signs that gundarks live nearby, or avoid quicksand and other
natural hazards.

Basic Survival: Once per day, you can make a DC 15 Survival check to
avoid natural hazards and keep yourself safe and fed in the wild for the next

24 hours. You can provide food and water for one additional person for every
2 points by which your check result exceeds 10.

Endure Extreme Temperatures (requires field kit): Once per day, you can
make a DC 20 Survival check to ignore the effects of extreme cold or extreme
heat for the next 24 hours (see Extreme Temperatures, page 254).

Know Direction: As a full-round action, you can ascertain which direction
is north by succeeding on a DC 10 Survival check (assuming you're somewhere
where cardinal directions matter).

Track (Trained Only): To find tracks or to follow them requires a full-
round action and a successful Survival check. The DC of the check depends
on the surface and the prevailing circumstances, as given below. You must

Al BSiAdvHga

SIWM]AS



--- Page 75 ---
make another Survival check every time the tracks become difficult to follow,
such as when other tracks cross them or when the terrain or prevailing
circumstances change.

You move at half normal speed while tracking. You can choose to move
your normal speed instead, but you take a -5 penalty on Survival checks
made to follow tracks.

SURFACE Dc
Soft ground 10
Firm ground 20
Hard ground 30

Soft Ground: Any surface (fresh snow, thick ash, wet mud) that holds
clear impressions of footprints.

Firm Ground: Any outdoor surface (lawns, fields, woods) or exceptionally
soft or dirty indoor surface (dusty floors, thick carpets) that can capture
footprints of a creature's passage.

Hard Ground: Any surface that doesn't hold footprints at all (bare rock,
concrete, metal deck plates).

CIRCUMSTANCE DC MODIFIER
Every 3 creatures in the group being tracked -1
Every day since the trail was made +1
Every hour of rain since the trail was made +1
Fresh snow cover since the trail was made +5
Poor visibility +5
Tracked target hides trail (and moves at half speed) +5
Largest creature being tracked
Huge or bigger -10
Large -5
Medium +0
Small +5
Tiny or smaller +10

Special: You can take 10 when making a Survival check. You can take
20 if there is no danger or penalty for failure, but it takes twenty times as
long as normal to do so.

Swim (STR)

Armor Check Penalty

Using this skill, a land-based creature can swim, dive, navigate underwater
obstacles, and so on.

Swim: A successful Swim check allows you to swim one-quarter your
speed as a move action or one-half your speed as a full-round action. Roll
once per round. If you fail, you make no progress through the water. If you
fail by 5 or more, you go underwater and must hold your breath (see the

Endurance skill, page 66) until you reach the surface by succeeding on a
Swim check.
The DC for the Swim check depends on the situation:

SITUATION pc
Calm water 10
Rough water 15
Stormy water 20

Retry: A new check is allowed the round after a check is failed.
Special: You can take 10 when making a Swim check, but you can't take
20.

TREAT INYURY (Wis)
Use this skill to keep a badly wounded friend from dying, to heal the injured,
or to treat a diseased or poisoned character.

First Aid (requires a medpac): As a full-round action, you can administer
first aid to an unconscious or wounded creature. If you succeed on a DC 15
Treat Injury check, the creature regains a number of hit points equal to its
character level, +1 for every point by which your check result exceeds the
DC. Using a medical kit grants a +2 equipment bonus on your skill check. If
the skill check succeeds, the tended creature cannot benefit from additional
first aid for 24 hours.

You can administer first aid on yourself, but you take a -5 penalty on
your Treat Injury check.

Long-Term Care: If you tend to a creature for 8 consecutive hours, that
creature regains hit points equal to its character level in addition to those
recovered from natural healing (see Natural Healing, page 148). A creature
can only benefit from long-term care once in a 24-hour period. You can tend
one creature at a time if untrained, or up to six simultaneously if trained.
You can't give long-term care to yourself.

Perform Surgery (Trained Only; requires a surgery kit): You can per-
form surgery to heal damage to a wounded creature, remove a persistent
condition, or install a cybernetic prosthesis (see page 137). Any of these
operations requires 1 hour of uninterrupted work, at the end of which time
you must make a Treat Injury check. If you fail your check, the surgery does
not yield any benefit (but any resources used are still lost). In addition, if you
fail your check by 5 or more, the creature takes damage equal to its damage
threshold. If this damage reduces the creature to 0 hit points, it dies (see 0
Hit Points, page 146).

Heal Damage: You can make a DC 20 Treat Injury check to perform
surgery on a wounded creature, healing an amount of damage equal to the
creature's Constitution bonus (minimum 1) x the creature's level. If you fail
the check, the creature instead takes damage equal to its damage threshold.
If the creature was already at 0 hit points, it dies unless it can spend a Force
Point to save itself (see page 93). You can perform surgery on yourself to heal


--- Page 76 ---
damage, but you take a -5 penalty on your skill check. Performing surgery to
heal damage also removes any persistent conditions afflicting the target.

Install a Cybernetic Prosthesis: You must have the Cybernetic Surgery
feat (see page 83) to install a cybernetic prosthesis on a living being. At the
end of the procedure, make a DC 20 Treat Injury check. If the check succeeds,
the prosthesis is installed properly. If the check fails, the prosthesis is not
properly installed; however, you can try again after another uninterrupted
hour of surgery. You can install a cybernetic prosthesis on yourself, but you
take a -5 penalty on your skill check.

Revivify (Trained Only; requires a medical kit): As a full-round action,
you can revive a creature that has just died. You must reach the dead creature
within 1 round of its death to revive it, and you must succeed on a DC 25
Treat Injury check. Using a medpac grants a +2 equipment bonus on the skill
check. If the check succeeds, the creature is unconscious instead of dead. If
the check fails, you are unable to revive the creature.

Treat Disease (Trained Only; requires a medical kit): Treating a diseased
character requires 8 hours. At the end of that time, make a Treat Injury check
against the disease’s DC (see Disease, page 254). If the check succeeds, the
patient is cured and no longer suffers any ill effects (including persistent
conditions caused by the disease). You can treat one creature at a time if
untrained, or up to six simultaneously if trained.

Treat Poison (Trained Only; requires a medical kit): As a full-round
action, you can treat a poisoned character. Make a Treat Injury check; if
the result equals or exceeds the poison'’s DC (see Poison, page 255), you
successfully detoxify the poison in the character's system and the patient
no longer suffers any ill effects (including persistent conditions caused by
the poison).

Treat Radiation (Trained Only; requires a medical kit): Treating an
irradiated character requires 8 hours. At the end of that time, make a Treat
Injury check against the radiation's DC (see Radiation, page 255). If the check
succeeds, the patient is cured and no longer suffers any ill effects (including
persistent conditions caused by the radiation). You can treat one creature at
a time if untrained, or up to six simultaneously if trained.

Special: You can take 10 when making a Treat Injury check, but you
can't take 20.

USE COMPUTER (INT)
Use this skill to access secured files and defeat security systems.

Access Information (requires computer attitude of indifferent or
better): Getting information through a computer requires you to connect
to the appropriate network (such as the HoloNet, or its equivalent in other
eras) and locate the files you seek. Connecting to a network (a full-round
action) doesn't require a skill check if you use a computer that's already
linked to it. However, establishing a connection to a network using a remote
computer requires a DC 10 Use Computer check. You can also get informa-
tion without connecting to a network if you use a computer whose memory
contains that information; the GM decides what information a computer's
memory actually holds.

Finding information on a single topic requires a set amount of time (see
below); at the end of this time, you must make a Use Computer check. The
time required and the check DC are determined by the type of information
sought. For example, locating general information about a senator is easier
than locating specific information (such as the senator's date of birth), which
is easier than finding private information (such as the senator's private comm

a]

Al esaiaveo

SBIMAS



--- Page 77 ---
0
I
>
v
4
WW
BY

ATTITUDETHE COMPUTER .. .

Hostile Treats you as a hostile intruder and attempts to trace your location and isolate your connection.

Unfriendly Treats you as an unauthorized user and blocks your access to its programs and information.

Indifferent Treats you as a guest or visitor and grants you access to non-secret programs and information
(as long as this does not conflict with previous commands).

Friendly Treats you as an authorized user and grants you access to any programs and non-secret information (as long as this does not conflict with
previous commands). You may add any equipment bonus provided by the computer to your Use Computer checks.

Helpful Treats you as if you are its owner or administrator, granting access to all of its programs and information (even if doing so overrides

previous commands). You may add any equipment bonus provided by the computer to your Use Computer checks.

channel code), which is easier than uncovering secret information (such as
the senator's cred stick code).

INFORMATION pc TIME REQUIRED

General 15 1 minute (10 rounds)
Specific 20 10 minutes

Private 25 1 hour

Secret* 30 1 day (8 hours)

* Secret information can only be accessed on a computer that is helpful
toward you.

Astrogate (Trained Only): You can plot a safe course through hyper-
space. Doing so usually requires 1 minute, at the end of which time you must
succeed on a Use Computer check. Various factors influence the DC of the
check (see Astrogation, page 237).

Disable or Erase Program (Trained Only; requires computer attitude
of helpful): You can disable or erase a program on a computer that is helpful
toward you (See Table 4-5: Computer Attitude Steps). Disabling or erasing a
program takes 10 minutes and requires a DC 15 Use Computer check.

Improve Access (Trained Only): As a full-round action, you can make
a Use Computer check to adjust the attitude of a computer in order to gain
access to its programs and information. You must be able to communicate
with the computer either through a direct interface (such as a keypad) or by
connecting to it through an appropriate network (such as the HoloNet). Apply
a modifier on the check based on the computer's current attitude toward
you: hostile -10, unfriendly -5, indifferent -2, friendly +0 (see Table 4-5:
Computer Attitude Steps). If the check equals or exceeds the computer's Will
Defense, the computer's attitude shifts one step in your favor. If you fail, the
computer's attitude does not change. If you fail by 5 or more, the computer's

becomes one step worse (for example, indifferent to unfriendly) and the
computer notifies the computer's administrator of the access attempt.

A hostile computer can be dangerous. If a computer becomes hostile
or if you fail any Use Computer check made to improve access to a hostile
computer, it traces your exact location and notifies the nearest security
personnel. In addition, if you fail by 5 or more when attempting to improve
access to a hostile computer, it isolates your connection and rejects any
further attempts you make to access it for 24 hours.

Issue Routine Command (requires computer attitude of friendly or
better): As a standard action, you can issue a routine command to a com-
puter. Examples include turning a computer on or off, viewing and editing
documents or recordings in its memory, printing a hard copy of a document
or image on a flimsiplast sheet, opening or closing doors that the computer
controls, and the like.

Issuing routine commands doesn't normally require a Use Computer
check. However, if another character issues a contradictory command,
the computer follows the command of the character toward whom it
has a better attitude (for example, it follows a command from someone
toward whom it is helpful over someone toward whom it is friendly). If
the computer has the same attitude toward both characters, make an
opposed Use Computer check against the competing character. If you
succeed, your command takes effect. If you fail, the opposing character's
command takes effect.

Reprogram Droid (Trained Only; requires tool kit): You can make a
check to reprogram a droid to obey a new master, copy data stored in its
memory banks, change its trained skills, erase memories selectively, or erase
its memory entirely (resetting the droid to its factory preset status). The DC
for any of these actions is equal to the droid's Will Defense. Reprogramming
a droid takes 10 minutes.


--- Page 78 ---
Special: You can take 10 on Use Computer checks. You can take 20 ona
Use Computer check except when attempting to improve access.

When a computer is friendly or helpful toward you, you gain an equip-
ment bonus on all Use Computer checks made with that computer equal to

its Intelligence bonus.

USE THE FORCE (CHA)

Requires the Force Sensitivity feat

You draw upon the Force to help you recover from injuries, gain special
insights, or perform other remarkable acts. You must have the Force Sensi-
tivity feat (page 85) to be trained in this skill.

Activate Force Power (Trained Only): You make a Use the Force check
to use a Force power (see Force Powers, page 95). This use of the skill
requires no action.

Force Trance (Trained Only): As a full-round action, you can enter a
Force trance with a DC 10 Use the Force check. In this state, you remain
fully aware of your surroundings. Each hour you remain in the trance, you
regain a number of hit points equal to your character level. You can emerge
from the trance as a swift action. If you remain in a Force trance for 4 con-
secutive hours, you emerge from the trance fully rested (as though you'd
rested for 8 hours).

While you're in a Force trance, you can go ten times as long as normal
without food or water (see the Endurance skill, page 66).

Move Light Object (Trained Only): As a move action, you can use the
Force to telekinetically lift and move a relatively light object within your
line of sight. A successful DC 10 Use the Force check allows you to move
an object weighing up to 5 kg a distance of 6 squares in any direction. As a
standard action, you can use the object as a projectile weapon, but the DC
increases to 15. If your Use the Force check beats the target's Reflex Defense,
the object hits and deals 1d6 points of bludgeoning damage.

Search Your Feelings: As a full-round action, you can make a DC
15 Use the Force check to determine whether a particular action will
yield favorable or unfavorable results to you in the immediate future
(10 minutes or less). For example, you can make the check to determine
whether destroying a dark side artifact will have immediate unforeseen
repercussions. The answer does not take into account the long-term
consequences of a contemplated action. Using the above example, a
successful check would not portend a future encounter with vengeful
darksiders angered by the destruction of the dark side artifact. (The GM
must assess the immediate consequences of the action, based on what
he knows about the circumstances.)

Sense Force (Trained Only): You automatically sense disturbances in
the Force. A location that is strong in the dark side of the Force can be
sensed out to a range of 1 kilometer. A relative, companion, or close friend
in mortal danger or great pain can be sensed out to a range of 10,000 light
years. A great disturbance, such as the destruction of an entire populated

“THE ABILITY

TO DESTROY

Aa PLANET IS
INSIGNIFICANT NEXT
TO THE POWER OF

THE FORCE."

—-DARTH VADER

planet or the distress of a whole order of allies, can be sensed anywhere
in the same galaxy. As a full-round action, you can make a DC 15 Use the
Force check to determine the distance and general direction to the location
of the disturbance.

As a full-round action, you can use this ability to actively sense other
Force-users out to a range of 100 kilometers. If you succeed on a DC 15 Use
the Force check, you know how many Force-users are within range, their
approximate distance and direction from you, and whether you've met them
before or not. Another Force-user within range can try to conceal her pres-
ence from you by making an opposed Use the Force check. If she equals or
exceeds your Use the Force check, you don't sense her presence at all.

Sense Surroundings: As a swift action, you can make a DC 15 Use the

Force check to ignore the effects of cover and concealment when ren)

Perception checks to detect or observe targets. Increase the DC by 5 if thi
ability is used against targets with total cover.

Telepathy: As a standard action, you can establish a telepathic link
with a distant creature. Through the link, you can exchange emotions or a
single thought, such as "Go!", “Help!", or "Danger!" The target must have
an Intelligence of 2 or higher, and the distance between you and the target
determines the DC (see below). Against an unwilling target, you must make
a Use the Force check against the target's Will Defense; if the check fails,
you cannot establish a telepathic link or attempt to telepathically contact
the target for 24 hours unless the target becomes a willing one.

TELEPATHY DISTANCE pc
Same planet 15
Same system 20
Same region/quadrant of the galaxy 25
Different region/quadrant of the galaxy 30

Special: You can't make Use the Force checks unless you have the Force
Sensitivity feat (see page 85). Use the Force is a class skill for any character
with the Force Sensitivity feat.

You can take 10 on a Use the Force check, but you can't take 20.

Al BSidcgvHo



--- Page 79 ---


--- Page 80 ---
(\
|

IUIRING FEATS

ats you feel best represent your character's interests and
-Each character gets one feat when the character is created (at
3rd, 6th, 9th, 12th, 15th, and 18th level, characters gain another
ble 3-1: Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits, page 37). For
ass characters, feats are gained according to total character level,
individual class levels.

Additionally, classes get bonus feats chosen from special lists (see the
class descriptions in Chapter 3: Heroic Classes). Humans also get a bonus
feat at 1st level, chosen from any feat the character qualifies for.

PREREQUISITES

Some feats have prerequisites. A character must have the listed ability score,
feat, trained skill, or base attack bonus in order to select or use that feat.
A character can gain a feat at the same level at which he or she gains the
prerequisite(s).

A prerequisite that contains a numerical value is a minimum; any value
higher than the one given also meets the prerequisite. For instance, the pre-
requisites for the Cleave feat are "Strength 13, Power Attack." Any character
with a Strength score of 13 or higher and the Power Attack feat meets the
prerequisites. You can't use a feat if you've lost a prerequisite. For example,
if your Strength drops below 13 for any reason, you can't use the Power
Attack feat until your Strength returns to 13 or higher.

FEAT DESCRIPTIONS

Here is the format for feat descriptions.

FEAT NAME
A description of what the feat does or represents in plain language, with
no game mechanics.

Prerequisite(s): A minimum ability score, another feat or feats, a mini-
mum base attack bonus, a special skill requirement, and/or a minimum level
ina class that a character must have to acquire this feat. This entry is absent
if a feat has no prerequisite.

Benefit: What the feat enables you (the character) to do.

Normal: What a character who does not have this feat is limited to or
restricted from doing. If not having the feat causes no particular drawback,
this entry is absent.

avHo

2
<



--- Page 81 ---
0}
I
>|.
v
4
0
2
<

FEAT
Acrobatic Strike
Armor Proficiency (heavy)

Armor Proficiency (light)
Armor Proficiency (medium)

Bantha Rush
Burst Fire

Careful Shot
Charging Fire
Cleave

Combat Reflexes
Coordinated Attack
Crush

Cybernetic Surgery
Deadeye

Dodge

Double Attack

Dreadful Rage

Dual Weapon Mastery |

Dual Weapon Mastery II
Dual Weapon Mastery III

Exotic Weapon Proficiency
Extra Rage

Extra Second Wind

Far Shot

Force Boon

Force Sensitivity

Force Training

Great Cleave

Improved Charge

Improved Defenses
Improved Disarm

Improved Damage Threshold

PREREQUISITES

Trained in Acrobatics

Armor Proficiency (light),
Armor Proficiency (medium)

Armor Proficiency (light)

Str 13, base attack bonus +1

Str 13, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons),
proficient with weapon

Point Blank Shot, base attack bonus +2

Base attack bonus +4

Str 13, Power Attack

Base attack bonus +2

Pin, base attack bonus +1

Trained in Treat Injury

Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot,

base attack bonus +4

Dex 13

Base attack bonus +6, proficient with weapon
Rage species trait, base attack bonus +1

Dex 13, base attack bonus +1

Dex 15, base attack bonus +6,
Dual Weapon Mastery |

Dex 17, base attack bonus +11, Dual Weapon
Mastery |, Dual Weapon Mastery II
Base attack bonus +1

Rage species trait

Trained in Endurance

Point Blank Shot

Force Sensitivity

Non-droid

Force Sensitivity

Str 13, Power Attack, Cleave,

base attack bonus +4

Dex 13, Dodge, Mobility

Int 13, Melee Defense

BENEFIT

Gain +5 bonus on next attack against opponent you tumble past.

No penalty on attacks and no armor check penalty while wearing

light, medium, or heavy armor.

No penalty on attacks and no armor check penalty while wearing light armor.
No penalty on attacks and no armor check penalty while wearing

light or medium armor.

Push opponent 1 square after making a successful melee attack.

Take a -5 penalty on an autofire attack to gain +2 dice damage.

If you aim, gain +1 bonus on the attack roll.

Make ranged attack at the end of a charge, at a -2 penalty.
Extra melee attack after dropping target.

Gain additional attacks of opportunity.

Automatic success with aid another action at point blank range.
Deal unarmed or claw damage to a pinned opponent.

Install a cybernetic prosthesis onto a living being.

If you aim, deal extra damage.

Gain a +1 dodge bonus to Reflex Defense against a selected target.

Make extra attack during full attack, -5 penalty to all attacks

Rage bonus to attacks and damage increases to +4.

Take a -5 penalty on attacks when attacking with two weapons or

both ends of a double weapon.

Take a -2 penalty on attacks when attacking with two weapons or

both ends of a double weapon.

Take no penalty on attacks when attacking with two weapons or

both ends of a double weapon.

Wield an exotic weapon without penalty.

Rage one additional time per day.

Gain an additional second wind per day.

Range penalties for short-, medium-, and long-ranged attacks are reduced.
Gain three additional Force Points at each level.

You can make Use the Force checks and gain access to Force talents.

Learn a number of Force powers equal to 1 + your Wis modifier (minimum 1).
No limit to cleave attacks each round.

You can charge without moving in a straight line.

Gain +1 bonus to all defenses.

Gain +5 bonus on melee attacks to disarm an opponent.
Damage threshold increases by 5.


--- Page 82 ---
Linguist
Martial Arts |

Martial Arts Il
Martial Arts Ill

Melee Defense
Mighty Swing
Mobility

Pin

Point Blank Shot
Power Attack
Powerful Charge
Precise Shot
Quick Draw
Rapid Shot

Rapid Strike

Running Attack
Shake It Off
Skill Focus

Skill Training
Sniper

Strong in the Force
Surgical Expertise
Throw

Toughness

Trip

Triple Attack

Triple Crit
Vehicular Combat
Weapon Finesse

Weapon Focus
Weapon Proficiency
Whirlwind Attack

Int 13

Martial Arts |, base attack bonus +3

Martial Arts |, Martial Arts Il,
base attack bonus +6

Int 13

Strength 13

Dex 13, Dodge

Base attack bonus +1

Str 13

Medium or larger size, base attack bonus +1
Point Blank Shot

Base attack bonus +1

Str 13, base attack bonus +1,

proficient with weapon

Dex 13, base attack bonus +1,

proficient with weapon

Dex 13

Con 13, trained in Endurance

Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot,

base attack bonus +4

Trained in Treat Injury

Trip, base attack bonus +1

Base attack bonus +1

Base attack bonus +9, Double Attack (chosen
weapon), proficient with chosen weapon

Proficient with weapon, base attack bonus +8

Trained in Pilot
Base attack bonus +1

Proficiency with weapon

Dex 13, Int 13, Melee Defense,
base attack bonus +4

Gain bonus languages equal to 1 + your Int modifier (minimum 1).

Increase damage from unarmed attacks by one die step;

gain +1 dodge bonus to Reflex Defense.

Increase damage from unarmed attacks by one die step;

gain +1 dodge bonus to Reflex Defense.

Increase damage from unarmed attacks by one die step;

gain +1 dodge bonus to Reflex Defense.

Trade attack bonus on melee attacks for a dodge bonus to Reflex Defense.
Spend two swift actions to deal extra damage in melee.

Gain +5 dodge bonus to Reflex Defense against some attacks of opportunity.
Grappled opponent is pinned for 1 round, can't move,

and loses its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense.

+1 bonus on ranged attacks and damage against point blank foes.

Trade attack bonus for damage on melee attacks (up to your base attack bonus).
Gain +2 bonus on your attack roll while charging and deal extra damage.

No -5 penalty for shooting into melee.

Draw weapon as a swift action.

Take a -2 penalty on a ranged attack roll to deal +1 die of damage.

Take a -2 penalty on a melee attack roll to deal +1 die of damage.

Move before and after making an attack.

Spend two swift actions to move +1 step along the condition track.
Gain +5 competence bonus on skill checks with one trained skill.
You become trained in one class skill.

You ignore soft cover when making a ranged attack.

Roll d8s instead of d6s when you spend a Force Point.

You can perform surgery in 10 minutes instead of 1 hour.

Throw a grappled opponent up to 1 square beyond your reach and deal damage.
Gain +1 hit point per character level.

Trip an opponent that you've grappled, knocking it prone.

Make second extra attack during full attack, additional -5 penalty to all attacks

Deal triple damage on a critical hit.

Negate one attack per round against the vehicle you're piloting.

Use Dex modifier instead of Str modifier on attack rolls with light melee weapons
and lightsabers.

+1 bonus on attack rolls with selected weapon

Ignore -5 penalty on attack rolls with weapons of a particular type.

Make one melee attack against each opponent within reach.

0
I
>
v
4
0
a
<

SAVAE)



--- Page 83 ---
Special: Additional facts about the feat that may be helpful when you
decide whether to acquire the feat.

ACROBATIC STRIKE
Your dexterous maneuvers and skilled acrobatics allow you to slip past a
foe's defenses and deliver an accurate strike against him.

Prerequisite: Trained in the Acrobatics skill.

Benefit: If you succeed in tumbling to avoid an attack of opportunity
(see the Acrobatics skill, page 62), you gain a +5 bonus on the next attack
that you make against that foe as long as the attack occurs before the end
of your current turn.

ARMOR PROFICIENCY (HEAVY)
You are proficient with heavy armor (see Table 8-7: Armor) and can wear it
without impediment.

Prerequisites: Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency (medium).

Benefit: When you wear heavy armor, you take no armor check penalty
on attack rolls or skill checks. Additionally, you benefit from all of the armor's
special equipment bonuses (if any).

Normal: A character who wears heavy armor with which she is not
proficient takes a -10 armor check penalty on attack rolls as well as skill
checks made using the following skills: Acrobatics, Climb, Endurance, Initia-
tive, Jump, Stealth, and Swim. Additionally, the character gains none of the
armor's special equipment bonuses.

ARMOR PROFICIENCY (LIGHT)
You are proficient with light armor (see Table 8-7: Armor) and can wear it
without impediment.

Benefit: When you wear light armor, you take no armor check penalty on
attack rolls or skill checks. Additionally, you benefit from all of the armor's
special equipment bonuses (if any).

Normal: A character who wears heavy armor with which she is not pro-
ficient takes a -2 armor check penalty on attack rolls as well as skill checks
made using the following skills: Acrobatics, Climb, Endurance, Initiative,
Jump, Stealth, and Swim. Additionally, the character gains none of the armor's
special equipment bonuses.

ARMOR PROFICIENCY (MEDIUM)
You are proficient with medium armor (see Table 8-7: Armor) and can wear
it without impediment.

Prerequisite: Armor Proficiency (light).

Benefit: When you wear medium armor, you take no armor check penalty
on attack rolls or skill checks. Additionally, you benefit from all of the armor's
special equipment bonuses (if any).

Normal: A character who wears medium armor with which she is not
proficient takes a -5 armor check penalty on attack rolls as well as skill
checks made using the following skills: Acrobatics, Climb, Endurance, Initia-
tive, Jump, Stealth, and Swim. Additionally, the character gains none of the
armor's special equipment bonuses.

BANTHA RUSH
You can shove your opponents around the battlefield to gain a tactical
advantage.

Prerequisite: Strength 13, base attack bonus +1.

Benefit: After making a successful melee attack against an opponent up
to one size category larger than you, you can choose to move that opponent
1 square in any direction as a free action. You can’t bantha rush an opponent
that's being grabbed or grappled, and you can't bantha rush your opponent
into a solid object or another creature's fighting space.

BuRST FIRE
When using a ranged weapon in autofire mode, you can fire a short burst
at a single foe.

Prerequisites: Strength 13, Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons), pro-
ficient with weapon.

Benefit: When using a ranged weapon with autofire capability in autofire
mode, you may fire a short burst as a single attack against a single target.
You take a -5 penalty on the attack roll but deal +2 dice of damage. For
example, a weapon that deals 3d10 points of damage deals 5d10 points of
damage instead.

The effects of this feat do not stack with the extra damage provided by
the Deadeye or Rapid Shot feat.

Special: Firing a burst expends five shots and can only be done if the
weapon has at least five shots remaining.

Normal: Autofire uses ten shots, targets a 2-square-by-2-square area,
and can't be aimed at a specific target. Without this feat, if you attempt an
autofire attack at a specific target, it simply counts as a normal attack and
all the extra shots are wasted.

CAREFUL SHOT
You are particularly skilled at aiming your attacks.

Prerequisites: Point Blank Shot, base attack bonus +2.

Benefit: If you aim before making a ranged attack (see Aim on page 154),
you gain a +1 bonus on your attack roll.

CHARGING FIRE
You are able to make ranged attacks while charging.

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +4.

Benefit: When you charge, you may make a ranged attack instead of a
melee attack at the end of your movement. Unlike a normal charge, your


--- Page 84 ---
momentum does not help overcome your target, so you gain no bonus on
attack roll. As with a normal charge, you still take a -2 penalty to your
Reflex Defense.

Normal: You can make a single melee attack with a +2 bonus on your
attack roll at the end of a charge.

CLEAVE
You can follow through with a powerful melee attack.

Prerequisites: Strength 13, Power Attack.

Benefit: If you deal an opponent enough damage to reduce its hit points to
0, you get an immediate extra melee attack against another opponent within
your reach. You cannot adjust 1 square before making this extra attack. The
extra attack is with the same weapon and at the same bonus as the attack that
dropped the previous opponent. You can use this ability once per round.

COMBAT REFLEXES
You can respond quickly and repeatedly

to opponents who let their guard
down.

Benefit: When opponents
leave themselves open, you may
make a number of additional
attacks of opportunity equal to
your Dexterity modifier.

For example, a charac-
ter with a Dexterity of 15
can make a total of three
attacks of opportunity in
a round: the one attack
of opportunity every
character is entitled to,
plus two more attacks
because of his +2
Dexterity bonus. If
four stormtroopers
move through the
character's threatened
area, he can make attacks of
opportunity against three of
the four. You still only make
one attack of opportunity on
a single opponent.

With this feat, you may also
make attacks of opportunity while
flat-footed.

Normal: A character without the Combat Reflexes feat can make only
one attack of opportunity per round and can't make attacks of opportu-
nity while flat-footed. (See Attacks of Opportunity, page 155, for more
information.)

COORDINATED ATTACK
You are skilled at coordinating your attacks with your allies.

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +2.

Benefit: You are automatically successful when using the aid another
action to aid an ally's attack or suppress an enemy as long as the target is
adjacent to you or within point blank range.

Normal: You must make an attack roll against a Reflex Defense of 10 to
gain the benefits of the aid another action.

CRUSH
You can deal damage to a creature that you've grappled.
aid Prerequisites: Pin, base attack bonus +1.
Benefit: If you successfully pin an
opponent with a grapple attack (see
the Pin feat, page 87), you can imme-
diately deal bludgeoning damage
to it equal to your unarmed
damage or claw damage,
whichever is greater.

CYBERNETIC
SURGERY
You can perform the surgi-
cal procedures necessary
to graft cybernetic
components onto
living flesh.
Prerequisite:
Trained in the Treat
Injury skill.
Benefit: You can install
a cybernetic prosthesis
(see page 137) on a living
being. The surgical procedure takes 1
hour of uninterrupted work, after which
you must make on a DC 20 Treat Injury
check. If the check succeeds, the prosthesis
is installed correctly. If the check fails,
the prosthesis is not properly installed;
however, you can try again after another
uninterrupted hour of surgery.

0
x
f >
v
4
0
BP
I<



--- Page 85 ---
Pad waLavHo

Special: You can install a cybernetic prosthesis on yourself, but you
take a -5 penalty on the Treat Injury skill check. If you have the Surgical
Expertise feat (see page 88), you can install a cybernetic prosthesis in 10
minutes instead of 1 hour.

DEADEYE
You are skilled at picking off enemies with well-aimed ranged attacks.
Prerequisites: Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, base attack bonus +4.
Benefit: If you aim before making a ranged attack (see Aim, page 154)
and the attack hits, increase the damage you deal by an additional weapon
die. For example, if you score a hit with a blaster pistol using the Deadeye
feat, the blaster shot deals 4d6 points of damage (instead of the normal
3d6 points).
The effects of this feat do not stack with the extra damage provided by
the Burst Fire or Rapid Shot feat.

DODGE
You are adept at dodging blows.

Prerequisite: Dexterity 13.

Benefit: During your turn, you designate an opponent and receive a +1
dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense against attacks from that opponent.
You can select a new opponent on any action.

A situation that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense
(if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses. Also, dodge bonuses stack with
each other, unlike most other types of bonuses.

DOUBLE ATTACK
You can make an additional attack during a round of combat.
Prerequisites: Base attack bonus +6, proficient with chosen weapon.
Benefit: Choose a single exotic weapon or one of the following weapon
groups: advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons, lightsabers, pistols,
rifles, simple weapons. When you use the full attack action, you may make
one additional attack when wielding such a weapon. However, you take a
-5 penalty on all attack rolls until your next turn because you're trading
precision for speed.
Normal: Making a single attack is a standard action.
Special: You may select this feat multiple times. Each time you select this
feat, it applies to a different exotic weapon or weapon group.

DREADFUL RAGE
You deal horrendous damage while raging.

Prerequisites: Rage species trait, base attack bonus +1.

Benefit: While raging, your rage bonus on melee attack rolls and melee
damage rolls increases to +5.

Normal: A character with the rage species trait gains a +2 rage bonus
on melee attack rolls and melee damage rolls while raging.

DUAL WEAPON MASTERY I!
You are adept at fighting with two weapons and double weapons.

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, base attack bonus +1.

Benefit: When you attack with two weapons or with both ends of a double
weapon as a part of a full attack action, you take a -5 penalty (instead of a -10
penalty) on all attack rolls until the start of your next turn. You only gain this
reduced penalty if you are wielding a weapon with which you are proficient.

Normal: If you use a full attack action to make more than one attack on
your turn (see Full Attack, page 154), you take a -10 penalty on all attack
rolls for the round.

DUAL WEAPON MASTERY II
You are a master at fighting with two weapons and double weapons.

Prerequisites: Dexterity 15, base attack bonus +6, Dual Weapon
Mastery I.

Benefit: When you attack with two weapons or both ends of a double
weapon as a part of a full attack action, you take a -2 penalty (instead of a -10
penalty) on all attack rolls until the start of your next turn. You only gain this
reduced penalty if you are wielding a weapon with which you are proficient.

Normal: If you use a full attack action to make more than one attack on
your turn (see Full Attack, page 154), you take a -10 penalty on all attack
rolls for the round.

DUAL WEAPON MASTERY Ill
You can wield two weapons or a double weapon without penalty.

Prerequisites: Dexterity 17, base attack bonus +11, Dual Weapon Mastery
|, Dual Weapon Mastery Il.

Benefit: When you wield two weapons or attack with both ends of a
double weapon as a part of a full attack action, you take no penalty on your
attack rolls. You only gain this benefit if you are wielding a weapon with
which you are proficient.

Normal: If you use a full attack action to make more than one attack on
your turn (see Full Attack, page 154), you take a -10 penalty on all attack
rolls for the round.

ExorTric WEAPON PROFICIENCY
Choose an exotic weapon, such as bowcaster or atlatl (see Exotic Weap-
ons, page 119). You understand how to use that type of exotic weapon in
combat.

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1.

Benefit: You make attack rolls with the weapon normally.

Normal: A character who uses a weapon without being proficient with
it takes a -5 penalty on attack rolls.

Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Each time you take the
feat, it applies to a different weapon.


--- Page 86 ---
ExTRA RAGE
You can fly into a rage more often.

Prerequisite: Rage species trait.

Benefit: You can rage one additional time per day.

Special: You can take this feat multiple times; each time you take the
feat, you can rage one additional time per day.

ExTRA SECOND WIND
You tend to come back from the edge of oblivion more often.

Prerequisite: Trained in the Endurance skill.

Benefit: You can catch your second wind one additional time per day,
but you can still only catch a second wind once per encounter (see Second
Wind, page 146).

Normal: A hero can catch his or her second wind once per day.

Special: A nonheroic character that takes this feat for the first time can
catch a second wind once per day.

You can take this feat multiple times; each time you take this feat, you
can catch a second wind one additional time per day.

FAR SHOT
You are better at shooting distant foes.

Prerequisite: Point Blank Shot.

Benefit: When you use a ranged weapon against targets at short,
medium, or long range, the range category is considered one less. In other
words, you take no penalty on ranged attack rolls against targets at short
range, a -2 penalty on ranged attack rolls made against targets at medium
range, and a -5 penalty on a ranged attack rolls made against targets at
long range.

Normal: When making a ranged attack roll, a character takes a -2 penalty
against targets at short range, a -5 penalty against targets at medium range,
and a -10 penalty against targets at long range.

FORCE BOON

You are able to draw upon the Force more often than less skilled users.
Prerequisite: Force Sensitivity.
Benefit: You gain three additional Force Points at each level.

FORCE SENSITIVITY
You are Force-sensitive, allowing you to call on the Force and learn to draw
on its power.

Prerequisite: Cannot be a droid.

Benefit: You can make Use the Force checks, and Use the Force is con-
sidered a class skill for you. In addition, whenever you gain a new talent,
you have the option of selecting a Force talent instead. You must meet the
prerequisites of the Force talent to select it (see Force Talents, page 100).

Normal: You can't make Use the Force checks (page 77) or select Force
talents unless you have the Force Sensitivity feat.

FORCE TRAINING
You learn one or more Force powers (see Force Powers, page 95).

Prerequisites: Force Sensitivity, trained in the Use the Force skill.

Benefit: You add to your Force power suite a number of Force powers
equal to 1 + your Wisdom modifier (minimum 1). You can add the same
power more than once.

Special: You can take this feat more than once. Each time you take this
feat, you add to your Force suite a number of new Force powers equal to
your Wisdom modifier.

If your Wisdom modifier permanently increases, you immediately gain
a number of Force powers equal to the number of Force Training feats you
have taken.

GREAT CLEAVE
You can wield a melee weapon with such power that you can strike multiple
times when you drop your opponents.
Prerequisites: Strength 13, Power Attack, Cleave, base attack bonus +4.
Benefit: As the Cleave feat (page 83), except that you have no limit to
the number of times you can use it per round.

IMPROVED CHARGE
You can charge around obstacles.

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Dodge, Mobility.

Benefit: You can make a charge (see page 152) without having to move
in a Straight line, and you can alter your direction when making a charge to
avoid obstacles. All other charge rules apply.

Normal: A character must charge in an unobstructed straight line.

IMPROVED DEFENSES
You are skilled at fending off attacks of many forms.

Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus to your Reflex Defense, Fortitude Defense,
and Will Defense.

IMPROVED DISARM
You are skilled at disarming opponents in melee combat.

Prerequisites: Intelligence 13, Melee Defense.

Benefit: You gain a +5 bonus on any melee attack roll made to disarm
an opponent. In addition, if you fail to disarm your opponent, he doesn't get
to make a free attack against you.

Normal: See the normal disarm rules on page 152.

0
I
>
v
4
iW]
a
<



--- Page 87 ---
A BeS1LdvHo

IMPROVED DAMAGE
THRESHOLD
You are harder to take down in a fight.

Benefit: You increase your damage threshold by 5 (see Damage Threshold,
page 146).

Normal: A creature without this feat has a damage threshold equal to
its Fortitude Defense plus its size modifier (+5 for Large, +10 for Huge, +20
for Gargantuan, or +50 for Colossal).

Special: You can take this feat more than once. Its effects stack. Each
time you take this feat, increase your damage threshold by 5.

LINGUIST
You pick up languages quickly and easily.

Prerequisite: Intelligence 13.

Benefit: You gain a number of bonus languages equal to 1 plus your
Intelligence bonus (minimum of 1). See the sidebar on page 22 for a list of
common languages.

Special: You can take this feat more than once. Each time you take this
feat, you gain a number of additional languages equal to 1 plus your Intel-
ligence bonus (minimum of 1).

MARTIAL ARTS 1
You are adept at fighting unarmed.

Benefit: Damage dealt by your unarmed attacks increases by one die step:
1d3 becomes 1d4, 1d4 becomes 1d6, and 1d6 becomes 1d8. In addition, you
gain a +1 dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense.

Normal: The amount of damage you deal with a successful unarmed
attack is based on your size: Small, 1d3; Medium, 1d4; Large, 1d6.

Special: A situation that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to Reflex
Defense (if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses. Also, dodge bonuses
stack with each other, unlike most other types of bonuses.

MARTIAL ARTS Il
You are a master at fighting unarmed.

Prerequisites: Martial Arts |, base attack bonus +3.

Benefit: Damage dealt by your unarmed attacks increases by one die step:
1d4 becomes 1d6, 1d6 becomes 1d8, and 1d8 becomes 1d10. In addition, you
gain a +1 dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense (which stacks with the dodge
bonus granted by the Martial Arts | feat).

Normal: The amount of damage you deal with a successful unarmed
attack is based on your size: Small, 143; Medium, 1d4; Large, 1d6.

Special: A situation that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to Reflex
Defense (if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses. Also, dodge bonuses
stack with each other, unlike most other types of bonuses.

MARTIAL ARTS Ill
Your martial arts prowess is second to none.
Prerequisites: Martial Arts |, Martial Arts Il, base attack bonus +6.
Benefit: Damage dealt by your unarmed attacks increases by one die step:
1d6 becomes 1d8, 1d8 becomes 1d10, and 1d10 becomes 1d12. In addition,
you gain a +1 dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense (which stacks with the
dodge bonus granted by the Martial Arts | and Martial Arts II feats).
Normal: The amount of damage you deal with a successful unarmed
attack is based on your size: Small, 1d3; Medium, 1d4; Large, 1d6.
Special: A situation that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to Reflex
Defense (if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses. Also, dodge bonuses
stack with each other, unlike most other types of bonuses.

MELEE DEFENSE
You are trained at using your combat ability for defense as well as offense.

Prerequisite: Intelligence 13.

Benefit: When you use a standard action to make a melee attack, you can
take a penalty of up to -5 on your attack roll and add the same number (up
to +5) as a dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense. This number may not exceed
your base attack bonus. The changes to attack rolls and Reflex Defense last
until the start of your next turn.

Normal: A character without the Melee Defense feat can fight defensively
while using the attack action to take a -5 penalty on his attack roll and gain
a +2 dodge bonus to his Reflex Defense.

MIGHTY SWING
You are capable of delivering jarring melee attacks.

Prerequisite: Strength 13.

Benefit: You can spend two swift actions in the same round to deal +1
die of damage on your next melee attack in the same round.

The effects of this feat do not stack with the extra damage provided by
the Rapid Strike feat.

MOBILITY
You are skilled at moving past opponents and avoiding opportunistic
attacks.

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Dodge.

Benefit: You get a +5 dodge bonus to Reflex Defense against attacks
of opportunity caused when you move out of or into a threatened area (see
Attacks of Opportunity, page 155).

A situation that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense
(if any) also makes you lose dodge bonuses. Dodge bonuses stack with each
other, unlike most types of bonuses.


--- Page 88 ---
PIN
You are skilled at immobilizing grappled foes.

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1.

Benefit: If you succeed on a grappling attack and your opponent fails the
opposed grapple check, your opponent is automatically pinned until the start
of your next turn. A pinned creature can't move or take any actions while
pinned, and it loses its Dexterity bonus (if any) to Reflex Defense.

Special: You cannot use the Pin and Trip feats during the same round.
You can use the Pin and Crush feat in the same round, however.

POINT BLANK SHOT
You are skilled at making well-placed shots with ranged weapons at point
blank range.

Benefit: You get a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls with ranged
weapons against opponents within point blank range (see Table 8-5: Weapon
Ranges, page 129).

POWER ATTACK
You can make exceptionally powerful melee attacks.

Prerequisite: Strength 13.

Benefit: On your action, before making an attack roll, you may choose
to subtract a number from all melee attack rolls and add the same number
to all melee damage rolls. This number may not exceed your base attack
bonus. The penalty on attacks and bonus on damage applies until the start
of your next turn.

Special: If you attack with a two-handed weapon, or with a one-handed
weapon wielded in two hands, instead add twice the number subtracted from
your attack rolls. You can't add the bonus from Power Attack to the damage
dealt against an object or vehicle.

POWERFUL CHARGE
You can charge with extra force.

Prerequisites: Medium or larger size, base attack bonus +1.

Benefit: When you charge, you gain an additional +2 bonus to your melee
attack roll. If your melee attack hits, you deal additional damage equal to
one-half your level.

PRECISE SHOT
You are skilled at timing your ranged attacks so that you don't hit your
allies by mistake.

Prerequisite: Point Blank Shot.

Benefit: You can shoot or throw a ranged weapon at an opponent
engaged in melee combat with one or more of your allies without taking the
standard -5 penalty (see Shooting or Throwing into a Melee, page 161).

Quick DRAW
You can draw and holster weapons with startling quickness.

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1.

Benefit: You can draw or holster a weapon as a swift action instead of
as a move action.

A HSievHo



--- Page 89 ---
V

RAPID SHOT
You can make two quick shots with a ranged weapon as a single attack.

Prerequisites: Strength 13, base attack bonus +1, proficient with
weapon.

Benefit: When using a ranged weapon, you may fire two shots as a single
attack against a single target. You take a -2 penalty on your attack roll, but
you deal +1 die of damage with a successful attack.

Special: Using this feat fires two shots and can only be done if the
weapon has sufficient ammunition remaining. The effects of this feat do
not stack with the extra damage provided by the Burst Fire feat (page 82)
or Deadeye feat (page 84).

RAPID STRIKE
You can make two quick strikes with a melee weapon as a single attack.

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, base attack bonus +1, proficient with
weapon,

Benefit: When using a melee weapon, you may make two strikes as a
single attack against a single target. You take a -2 penalty on your attack
roll, but you deal +1 die of damage with a successful attack.

The effects of this feat do not stack with the extra damage provided by
the Mighty Swing feat.

RUNNING ATTACK
You can move as you attack.

Prerequisite: Dexterity 13.

Benefit: When making an attack with a melee or ranged weapon, you
can move both before and after the attack, provided that your total distance
moved is not greater than your speed.

SHAKE IT OFF
You have learned to shake off debilitating conditions.
Prerequisites: Constitution 13, trained in the Endurance skill.
Benefit: You can spend two swift actions instead of three swift actions
to move +1 step along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148).
Normal: It takes three swift actions to move +1 step along the condi-
tion track.

SKILL FOCUS
One of your skills is particularly well honed.

Benefit: You gain a +5 competence bonus on skill checks made with one
trained skill of your choice.

Special: This feat may be selected multiple times. Its effects do not stack.
Each time you take this feat, it applies to a different trained skill.

SKILL TRAINING
You are considered trained in a new skill.

Benefit: Choose one untrained skill from your list of class skills. You
become trained in that skill.

Special: This feat may be selected multiple times. Each time you take
this feat, it applies to a different class skill.

SNIPER
You are particularly adept at hitting the right target in a crowd.
Prerequisites: Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, base attack bonus +4.
Benefit: You always ignore soft cover (that is, cover provided by a char-
acter, creature, or droid) when you make a ranged attack.
Normal: You can only ignore cover if you aim (see page 154) before
making a ranged attack.

STRONG IN THE FORCE
You have a particularly strong connection to the Force.

Benefit: When you spend a Force Point to adjust the result of an attack
roll, skill check, or ability check, you roll d8s rather than d6s.

SURGICAL EXPERTISE
You can perform skillful surgical procedures quickly.

Prerequisite: Trained in the Treat Injury skill.

Benefit: You can perform surgery in 10 minutes.

Normal: Performing surgery typically takes 1 hour (see the Treat Injury
skill, page 74).

THROW
You can throw a creature that you've grappled.

Prerequisites: Trip, base attack bonus +1.

Benefit: If you successfully trip an opponent with a grapple attack, the
opponent falls prone in any unoccupied space you desire up to 1 square
beyond your reach and takes bludgeoning damage equal to your unarmed
attack damage. A thrown opponent is no longer considered grappled.

TOUGHNESS
You are tougher than normal.
Benefit: You gain +1 hit point per character level.

TRIP
You are skilled at tripping grappled foes.

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1.

Benefit: If you succeed on a grappling attack (see page 153) and your
opponent fails the opposed grapple check, it falls prone in its space and is
no longer considered grappled.


--- Page 90 ---
A prone opponent takes a -5 penalty on melee attack rolls. Melee attacks
made against a prone target gain a +5 bonus, while ranged attacks made
against a prone target take a -5 penalty.

Special: You cannot use the Pin and Trip feats during the same round.

TRIPLE ATTACK
You can make an additional attack during a round of combat.

Prerequisites: Base attack bonus +11, Double Attack (chosen weapon),
proficient with chosen weapon.

Benefit: Choose a single exotic weapon or one of the following weapon
groups: advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons, lightsabers, pistols, rifles,
simple weapons. When you use the full attack action, you may make one addi-
tional attack when wielding such a weapon. However, you take a -5 penalty
on all attack rolls until your next turn because you're trading precision for
speed. The extra attack and penalty stack with those of Double Attack.

Normal: Making a single attack is a standard action.

Special: You may select this feat multiple times. Each time you select this
feat, it applies to a different exotic weapon or weapon group.

TRIPLE CRIT
Choose one type of weapon, such as a blaster pistol, vibrodagger, or light-
saber. You deal more damage on a critical hit with that weapon.

Prerequisites: Proficient with weapon, base attack bonus +8.

Benefit: When you score a critical hit with the selected weapon, you deal
triple damage. You may select “unarmed attack" as a weapon for purposes
of this feat.

Normal: A critical hit normally deals double damage to the target.

Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. The effects do not stack.
Each time you take this feat, it applies to a different weapon.

VEHICULAR COMBAT
You can avoid attacks made against your vehicle.

Prerequisite: Trained in the Pilot skill.

Benefit: Once per round (as a reaction), when you are piloting a vehicle
or starship, you may negate a weapon hit by making a successful Pilot
check. The DC of the skill check is equal to the result of the attack roll you
wish to negate.

In addition, while you are piloting a vehicle, you are considered proficient
with pilot-operated vehicle weapons. (The vehicle descriptions in Chapter 10
indicate which weapons are operated by the pilot.)

WEAPON FINESSE
You are especially skilled at using weapons one that can benefit as much
from Dexterity as from Strength.

Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1.

Benefit: When using a light melee weapon or a lightsaber, you may use
your Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength modifier on attack rolls.

WEAPON FOCUS
Choose a single exotic weapon or weapon group. You are especially good
at using these weapons. You can choose unarmed strike or grapple for your
weapon for purposes of this feat.

Prerequisite: Proficient with selected exotic weapon or weapon group.

Benefit: You gain a +1 bonus on all attack rolls you make using the
selected exotic weapon or weapon group.

Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack.
Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new exotic weapon or weapon
group.

WEAPON PROFICIENCY
You are proficient with a particular kind of weaponry.

Benefit: Choose one of the following weapon groups: advanced melee
weapons, heavy weapons (which includes vehicular weapons and starship
weapons), lightsabers, pistols, rifles, and simple weapons. You are proficient
with all weapons of the selected group. For more information on weapon
groups, see page 119.

Normal: If you wield a weapon with which you are not proficient, you
take a -5 penalty to your attack rolls.

Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Each time you take the
feat, it applies to a different weapon group. You cannot take exotic weapons
as a weapon group; instead, you must select the Exotic Weapon Proficiency
feat (see page 84) to gain proficiency with a specific exotic weapon (such
as the bowcaster or flamethrower).

WHIRLWIND ATTACK
You can strike nearby opponents in an amazing, spinning melee attack.

Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Intelligence 13, Melee Defense, base attack
bonus +4.

Benefit: As a full-round action, you can make an area attack with your
melee weapon, striking every opponent within your reach. This whirlwind
attack uses the area attack rules (see Area Attacks, page 155); you make
one attack roll and apply the result to every target in range.



--- Page 91 ---
Md

CHAPTER VI

=



--- Page 92 ---
| The Force is an energy field generated by all living things. It surrounds and
penetrates everything, binding the galaxy together. There are two sides to
the Force. Peace, serenity, and knowledge form the light side, while the dark
_ side consists of aggression, anger, and fear. The universe is a place of balance:
life and death, creation and destruction, love and hate. As such, both sides
__ of the Force are part of the natural order.
Some beings are more attuned to the Force than others. Whether they
understand it or not, they can feel the Force flowing through them. Of
those that are sensitive to the Force, beings that study its ways can learn to
“manipulate its energy. The Jedi fall into this category, using their knowledge

os Force to give them their powers. But theirs is not the only Force-using
_ tradition. The Sith, the Nightsisters of Dathomir, and others embrace the dark
“side of the Force, while a variety of alien cultures, such as Ewok shamans
1 a eco-priests, call the light side of the Force by different names.
Understanding of the Force manifests in many ways.

THE FORCE
THROUGH THE AGES

For most of the history of the Republic, the Jedi were looked upon as
defenders and protectors of justice. By their example, belief in the Force
was accepted if not always understood. Most beings could not perceive the
Force directly; they could only see it manifest in those attuned to it, such as
the Jedi. At times over the years, the dark side came to the forefront, such
as during the ancient Sith Wars, but in general the champions of the light
side helped keep the galactic peace.

During the Rise of the Empire era, the Force is a powerful component of
everyday life. The Jedi are visible, active proponents of the Force. Regard-
less of what an individual may believe about the Force, it's hard to deny the
ower demonstrated by the Jedi. As the Clone Wars rage across the galaxy,
edi are seen at the forefront of battles, and the Force impacts the lives of
oldiers and citizens alike.

Later, in the wake of the destruction of the Jedi order and the rise of the
Empire, the Force comes to be looked upon as an arcane religion practiced
by misguided fools. The Empire outlaws the Jedi and attempts to stamp
out anyone who demonstrates an affinity for the Force. Propaganda and
politics keep the local systems in line and succeed in driving Force-users
underground, where they live in fear and obscurity.

If your campaign is set in the Rebellion era (around the time of Episodes
IV-VI), the Force has faded from common knowledge. Those who can
manipulate the Force keep their skills hidden to avoid the notice of the
Empire. Even members of the Imperial hierarchy, despite the presence of
Darth Vader, consider the Force to be outdated and insignificant compared to
the military might of the Empire. In many ways, that's just how the Emperor
wants it. Even the Emperor, one of the most powerful Force-users in the

lA BSBiavHo



--- Page 93 ---
IA HeS1tdGvwHD

qJ
a
W
xu)
| @
0)
®
W

galaxy, keeps his Force abilities secret from the general public and most
of his subordinates. The few Force-users that exist during this period are
either hiding from the Empire, working for the Empire, or trying to ignore
the presence of the Force. The Rebel Alliance has begun to use the Force as
a rallying cry, adopting the Jedi salutation, "May the Force be with you," as
its own. Because of this, the few Force-sensitive beings that can actually use
the Force begin to reach out to the Alliance. And, of course, Luke Skywalker
begins his training during this time.

If your campaign is set in The New Jedi Order era, the Force has regained
a place in everyday society and a new fellowship of Jedi has come to promi-
nence under the tutelage of Luke Skywalker. Many beings in the New Republic,
however, harbor varying degrees of mistrust and fear toward Force-users.
These negative feelings are due, in part, to the actions of a few rogue Jedi who
have taken the law into their own hands and have begun to rebel against Luke
Skywalker's leadership. The memories of a host of darksiders that plagued
the galaxy since the time of Darth Vader and the Emperor add fuel to the fire
of fear, and the political machinations of members of the Republic Council
have begun to fan these flames. Force-users of this period, then, are finding
that acceptance of the Force among the general population may turn into a
bad thing—at least as far as they are concerned. Tensions are already high,
as this era is marked by the invasion of the Yuuzhan Vong.

USING THE FORCE

The Force is a mystical energy field that surrounds and binds all living things
in the galaxy. More than just a source of power for those sensitive to its
presence, the Force can affect the fates of even ordinary citizens who have
no aptitude for its use. In the Star Wars Roleplaying Game, there are two
ways that players may call upon the Force for assistance. The first way,
usable by all characters, comes in the form of Force Points. The second way,
usable only by characters with the Force Sensitivity feat, is through the Use
of Force skill and associated Force powers.

FORCE POINTS

Force Points represent a character's knack for using the Force to aid her
actions. A character need not be Force-sensitive to use Force Points; they
represent the presence of the Force in all forms of life, and though some
call it luck, others believe that it is the will of the Force that grants a person
aid. For a Force-sensitive character, it represents a conscious decision to
call upon the Force for assistance. Characters without the Force Sensitivity
feat don't realize that the Force is aiding their actions, only that they are
trying hard to succeed.

GAINING FORCE POINTS
You get 5 Force Points at 1st level. When you gain a new level, you lose any
unspent Force Points from the previous level but gain a number of Force



--- Page 94 ---
Points equal to 5 + one-half your new character level (rounded down).
Some prestige classes grant a higher number of Force Points at each level
(see Chapter 12).

Example: Deel Surool, a 1st-level scoundrel, gains 5 Force Points at 1st
level and spends only four of them before achieving 2nd level. When he hits
2nd level, he loses the unspent Force Point from the previous level, but he
gains 6 Force Points (5 + one-half his new character level).

USING FORCE POINTS

On your turn, you may spend a Force Point as a free action to roll 1d6 and
add the result to a single attack roll, skill check, or ability check. You can do
this once per round. At 8th level, when you spend a Force Point, you instead
roll 2d6 and take the best die result as your bonus; at 15th level, you roll 3d6
and take the best die result as your bonus. This is summarized below:

CHARACTER LEVEL NUMBER OF DICE ROLLED

1st-7th 1d6
8th-14th 2d6*
15th or higher 3d6*

* Only count the highest die result.

Some talents, Force techniques, Force secrets, and Force powers require
you to spend a Force Point to activate. In addition, if you are a Force-user,
you may spend 1 Force Point as a swift action to return a single spent Force
power to your active suite of Force powers (see Force Powers, page 95, for
more information).

If you are reduced to 0 hit points and would be killed, you can spend a
Force Point as a reaction to avoid death and instead fall unconscious (see 0
Hit Points and Falling Unconscious, pages 146-147).

Finally, you can spend 1 Force Point as a swift action to lower your Dark
Side Score by 1 (see The Dark Side, below).

Unless noted otherwise, you can spend only one Force Point per round.

THE DARK SIDE

The Force has two aspects, one light and one dark. The dark side lurks in the
shadows, whispering to Force-users, tempting them with quick and easy
access to power. While seemingly stronger, the dark side is only easier. It
consists of the destructive impulses of all living beings. Anger, fear, hatred,

“THE DARK SIDE OF THE FORCE

BEWARE THE DARK SIDE

Most players don't want their Jedi characters to slip over to the
dark side of the Force. If you want a campaign where all the heroes
must constantly strive against the lure of the dark side, then the GM
should increase a character's Dark Side Score for even the most minor
transgressions. If you want a campaign where the heroes have more
room to explore options, or if you don't want slipping to the dark side
to be a major theme of the campaign, then the GM should consider
increasing a character's Dark Side Score only for major or moderate
transgressions.

and aggression are expressions of the dark side, and such emotions can
quickly lead a Force-user down the dark side's corrupting path. Early on
in her training, a Force-user finds that the dark side greatly enhances her
abilities. After a time, the dark side demands more and more of those in its
embrace.

DARK SIDE SCORE

Your Dark Side Score measures the extent to which you've been corrupted
by the dark side of the Force. A 1st-level character begins play with a Dark
Side Score of 0. The only way to increase one's Dark Side Score is to commit
evil acts.

A character who commits an evil act increases his Dark Side Score by 1.
What constitutes an evil act is discussed under Dark Side Transgressions, below.
Regardless of how many evil acts a character commits, the maximum Dark Side
Score a character can possess is equal to his Wisdom score. Thus, a character
with a Wisdom of 15 can have a maximum Dark Side Score of 15.

A character whose Dark Side Score equals his Wisdom score has fully
embraced the dark side and is wholly evil. A hero who falls to the dark side
becomes a GM character (unless the GM wants to allow the player to continue
playing the dark side character as a sort of campaign anti-hero).

DARK SIDE TRANSGRESSIONS

The GM should use the considerations detailed below as guidelines for
whether or not to increase a character's Dark Side Score. The guidelines are
separated by degree: Major transgressions are acts that definitely deserve

is

a PATHWAY TO MANY ABILITIES SOME
CONSIDER TO BE UNNATURAL.”

—- SUPREME CHANCELLOR PALPATINE



--- Page 95 ---
IA SS41dvHo

an increase, moderate transgressions are acts that probably deserve an
increase, and minor transgressions are acts that could be considered dark
but probably don't deserve an increase.

Major Transgressions
Any of the following transgressions should increase a character's Dark Side
Score by 1:

Performing a blatantly evil act: This includes deliberately killing or
injuring another character who hasn't done anything wrong or who honestly
seeks redemption for evil acts he performed in the past.

Using a Force power with the [dark side] descriptor: A few Force
powers are, by their very nature, evil. Examples of Force powers with the
[dark side] descriptor include Force lightning, which channels dark energy,
and dark rage, which feeds on negative emotions.

Using the Force in anger: Using the Force in anger or hatred is bad, but
this can be hard to enforce. It's difficult to determine the emotion a character
is experiencing. The GM should increase a character's Dark Side Score by 1 in
these situations only when the player specifically states that his character is
feeling fear, anger, hatred, pride, jealousy, greed, vengeance, and so forth.

Moderate Transgressions
Any of the following transgressions might increase a character's Dark Side
Score by 1, at the GM's discretion:

Using the Force to cause undue harm: Many uses of the Force are
not overtly of the dark side, but they can be harmful or even fatal in their
applications. When a Force power that isn’t specifically tied to the dark
side is used to harm living beings, the GM should consider increasing the
character's Dark Side Score by 1.

Performing a questionably evil act: Some acts, while seemingly cruel,
aren't necessarily evil. The GM should consider the intent behind the action
before deciding to increase a character's Dark Side Score. For example, it may
be a transgression to deliberately kill or injure (or allow someone else to kill
or injure) a character known to have committed evil acts without remorse,
but who is otherwise helpless.

Minor Transgressions
The following transgressions should probably not increase a character's Dark
Side Score, unless the GM feels there's good cause to make an exception:
Performing a dubiously evil act: Increase a character's Dark Side Score
only when the act is out of proportion to the situation. In most cases, the
GM shouldn't increase a character's Dark Side Score for a single incident,
but multiple incidents may indicate that the character has an unconscious
cruel streak. For example, a hero who kills an opponent in combat while
ignoring opportunities to end the situation without the loss of life might
deserve a increased Dark Side Score, though a specific situation might not
appear quite so clear-cut.

HEROES AND THE DARK SIDE
A GM may decide to run a completely heroic campaign. In this case,
the GM can rule that once a Force-using character becomes dark, that
character becomes a GM character and is no longer under the control
of the player. If you're the GM, consider this option carefully before
implementing it, because it takes away player freedom. If you put this
rule in place at the start of your campaign, then it just becomes part of
the rules and everyone is aware of the consequences of walking down
the dark path.

Dark Side Score Tracker
The Dark Side Score tracker is a useful tool for tracking a hero's devotion to
the dark side. The Dark Side Score tracker is represented as a row of 24 num-
bered boxes at the bottom of your Star Wars character sheet (page 287).
A character's Dark Side Score tracker should have a number of empty
boxes equal to the character's Wisdom score. Any extra boxes should be
shaded in or blacked out. For example, Set Harth has a Wisdom of 11, so his
Dark Side Score tracker looks like this:

DARK SIDE SCORE

62/3 4/58 6 7;6,-9 710)

Whenever a hero's Dark Side Score increases by 1, the player fills in
one of the empty boxes on the character's Dark Side Score tracker. When
a character has no more empty boxes on his Dark Side Score tracker, he is
considered to be dark. He is now effectively lost to the dark side and has
little hope of finding redemption.

Whenever a character's Wisdom score increases by 1, he gets an additional
empty box on his Dark Side Score tracker. This box remains empty until his
Dark Side Score increases by 1.

A hero who still has empty boxes on his Dark Side Score tracker may be
tainted by the dark side, but not beyond redemption. A tainted character
can rid himself of the dark side's taint by atoning.

Atoning

A hero tainted by the dark side can work his way back to the light through
heroic deeds, the use of Force Points, and by atoning for past misdeeds. A
dark character's only path back to the light is to accomplish a truly epic act
of heroism against the dark and in the service of the light.


--- Page 96 ---
Effectively, the tainted character accomplishes this by reducing his Dark
Side Score. A character can sacrifice 1 Force Point to reduce his Dark Side
Score by 1 and clear one box on his Dark Side Score tracker. This form of
atonement represents a period of meditation, reflection, and absolution
on the part of the character. If desired by the player and GM, this can be
worked into the campaign as part of an adventure, but it isn't necessary. It
can occur between adventures.

In addition, an act of dramatic heroism by the character—if performed
without calling upon the dark side—reduces the character's Dark Side Score
by 1 and clears one box on his Dark Side Score tracker.

A dark character can't reduce his Dark Side Score by atoning. Such a
character's only option is an act of dramatic heroism (see below).

Dramatic Heroism

A dark character may attempt to turn away from the dark side by performing
an act of dramatic heroism without calling upon the dark side of the Force.
Such an act should require extreme personal cost, be made in a selfless
manner, and provide a significant benefit to the galactic balance.

Darth Vader performed such an act of dramatic heroism at the end of
Return of the Jedi when he sacrificed his own life to save his son and destroy
the Emperor. Kyp Durron (in the expanded Star Wars universe) performed
a similar act of dramatic heroism by destroying the Sun Crusher, a super
weapon prototype. Additionally, Jedi history tells of a Jedi named Bastila
Shan (from Knights of the Old Republic) falling to the dark side, but in an
act of dramatic heroism she turned the Republic fleet against Darth Malak
using a powerful form of Battle Meditation.

If the GM accepts the act as being appropriately heroic, dramatic, and
selfless, the character's Dark Side Score drops to 1, and he clears all but
one of the boxes on his Dark Side Score tracker (so that he has a number
of empty boxes equal to one less than his Wisdom score). In addition, the
dark side exacts a final toll by drawing away all of the character's current
Force Points. Henceforth, the character must strive to walk the path of
the light side.

FORCE POWERS

Force powers are special abilities available to anyone who takes the Force
Training feat (page 85). They allow characters to do astonishing things such
as play tricks with the minds of others, move heavy objects, see into the
future, and even blast foes with terrible arcs of lightning.

LEARNING FORCE POWERS

A character who takes the Force Training feat (see page 85) automatically
learns a number of Force powers of her choice equal to 1 + her Wisdom modi-
fier (minimum 1). A character can learn additional Force powers by taking
the Force Training feat again or by increasing her Wisdom modifier.

SCLECTING FORCE POWERS
Choosing your Force powers can be something of an art. If you choose
poorly, you might be stuck with a Force power that you can't use very
well. When selecting Force powers, remember the following:

Like feats, Force powers cannot be changed once selected (not with-
out your GM's approval, anyway). Also, some Force powers are inherently
more difficult to trigger than others. For example, Force stun requires
a DC 20 (or higher) Use the Force check to activate, which means that
a low-level character attempting to use the power will fail more often
than he succeeds.

Don't forget that you can select the same Force power more than
once if you want to be able to have multiple uses of that power in your
suite. At low levels, it is sometimes more useful to have extra uses of
an easy-to-trigger power than a new power that is more difficult to
activate.

For example, Sen Udo-Mal is a 1st-level Jedi with a Wisdom score of 11
(+0 modifier). He takes the Force Training feat at 1st level and immediately
gains a Force power. He chooses battle strike. At 3rd level, he takes the Force
Training feat again, which allows him to learn a new Force power; he chooses
mind trick. At 4th level, Sen Udo-Mal raises his Wisdom score from 11 to 12,
thereby increasing his ability modifier from +0 to +1; at that time, he gains
two additional Force powers (one for each instance of the Force Training
feat), so he chooses move object and surge.

USING FORCE POWERS
When your character uses a Force power, make a Use the Force check (see
page 77). The check result determines the power's effect.

Some Force powers have all-or-nothing effects. Other Force powers have
multi-tiered effects, and your Use the Force check result determines the
maximum effect you can achieve, although you can always choose a lesser
effect. If your Use the Force check is too low to activate the Force power's
baseline effect, nothing happens and the action is wasted.

Using a Force power removes it from your character's active "suite" of
Force powers, regardless of whether the Use the Force skill check succeeds
or fails.

Your Force Power Suite: Your character's Force powers collectively form
a suite. When your character uses a Force power, it's like playing a card and
putting it in a discard pile. The power takes effect, and it's no longer available
to the character... at least for a while.

Regaining Force Powers: You have different ways to regain spent Force
powers so that you can use them again:

—When combat is over and you have a chance to rest for 1 minute, you
regain all of your Force powers.

geve2) SM, |

1A BSaidvHoS



--- Page 97 ---
gaHed FAA

IA SBeS4idvHoa

Y

—If you roll a natural 20 on a Use the Force check, you regain all spent
Force powers at the end of your turn.

—You can spend a Force Point as a reaction and immediately regain one
spent Force power.

—Some unique abilities (such as the Force Focus talent) allow you to
regain spent Force powers in other ways.

Force Power Descriptors
Some Force powers are more strongly tied to one side of the Force than
the other. These Force powers carry either the [light side] descriptor or the
[dark side] descriptor. Powers that target creatures’ minds carry the [mind-
affecting] descriptor.

Dark Side: Using a Force power with the [dark side] descriptor increases
your Dark Side Score by 1. You cannot use a Force Point to modify your Use
the Force check when activating a Force power with the [dark side] descriptor.
Dark side powers stem from powerful negative emotions and include dark
rage and Force lightning.

Light Side: If you have a Dark Side Score of 1 or higher, you cannot use
a Force Point to modify your Use the Force check when activating a Force
power with the [light side] descriptor. Light side powers are generally ben-
eficial and include sever Force and vital transfer.

Mind-Affecting: A Force power with the [mind-affecting] descriptor has
no effect on creatures that are mindless (that is, creatures with no Intel-

giibence score) or creatures that are immune to mind-affecting effects.

FORCE POWER
DESCRIPTIONS

The following Force powers are available to any character with the Force
Sensitivity feat (see page 85). Each Force power includes the following
information:

FORCE POWER NAME
CDESCRIPTOR]I
If a Force power has a descriptor, it appears in square brackets after the Force
power's name. The name of the power is followed by a brief description of
the Force power's effect. Time: The type of action needed to use or activate
the Force power. Target: The targets affected by the Force power.

Make a Use the Force check. The results of the Use the Force check
are described here.

Special: Some Force powers have special rules, which are covered
here.

Y

BATTLE STRIKE
You use the Force to enhance your battle prowess. Time: Swift action.
Target: You.
Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the
effect, if any:
DC 15: Gain a +1 Force bonus on your next attack roll and deal an addi-
tional 1d6 points of damage if the attack hits.
DC 20: As DC 15, except you deal an additional 2d6 points of damage.
DC 25: As DC 15, except you deal an additional 3d6 points of damage.
Special: You can spend a Force Point to deal an additional 2d6 points of
damage on your next attack.

DARK RAGE [DARK SIDE]
You become enraged as the dark side flows through you. Time: Swift action.
Target: You.

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the
effect, if any:

DC 15: You gain a +2 rage bonus on melee attack rolls and melee damage
rolls until the end of your turn.

DC 20: As DC 15, except the rage bonuses increase to +4.

DC 25: As DC 15, except the rage bonuses increase to +6.

Special: While consumed by rage, you cannot use skills or perform tasks
that require patience or concentration.

You can spend a Force Point to extend the duration of your dark rage
until the end of the encounter.

FARSEEING

You gain a vague, momentary impression of events happening around a
particular being in some distant place. Time: Full-round action. Target: One
creature you know or have met before.

Make a Use the Force check. If your check result is less than the target's
Will Defense, you gain no information (including whether the target is alive
or dead) and cannot use this Force power against the same target for 24
hours. If your check result equals or exceeds the target's Will Defense, you
can sense whether the target is alive or dead and gain a vague sense of its
immediate surroundings, what it's currently doing, and any strong emotions
it is presently feeling. A dead target has a Will Defense of 30 for purposes
of this Force power.

Special: If you successfully use this Force power, you can spend a Force
Point to gain a clear mental image of the target's surroundings, as well as
other creatures and objects within 6 squares of it.


--- Page 98 ---
OPO <

FORCE DISARM

You disarm an opponent by using the Force to pull the weapon from his
grasp. Time: Standard action. Target: One creature within 6 squares and
within line of sight.

Make a Use the Force check. Use this check in place of your attack
roll when attempting to disarm the target (see Disarm, page 152). If your
disarm attack succeeds, you may choose to let the item drop to the ground
in the target's fighting space or have the item fly into your hand (in which
case you must have a free hand to catch it).

Special: Feats that improve disarm attacks (such as Improved Disarm)
do not apply to Force disarm.

You can spend a Force Point to damage or destroy the target weapon
instead. If your disarm attack succeeds, the weapon takes damage equal to
your Use the Force check result. You must declare that you are using this
option before making your disarm attack.

FORCE GRIP
You use the Force to choke or crush your enemy. Time: Standard action.
Target: One target within 6 squares or within line of sight.

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the
effect, if any:

DC 15: The target takes 2d6 points of damage. If your Use the Force check
equals or exceeds the target's Fortitude Defense, the target can take only a
single swift action on his next turn.

DC 20: As DC 15, except the target takes 4d6 points of damage.

DC 25: As DC 15, except target takes 6d6 points of damage.

Special: You may maintain your concentration on the targeted creature
to continue damaging it from round to round. Maintaining the Force grip is a
standard action, and you must make a new Use the Force check each round.

You can spend a Force Point to deal an additional 2d6 points of damage
with your Force grip.

FORCE LIGHTNING [DARK SIDE]
You blast an enemy with deadly arcs of Force energy. Time: Standard action.
Targets: One target in line of sight and within 6 squares of you.

Make a Use the Force check. Make one roll and compare the result to
the target's Reflex Defense. If the attack hits, the target takes 8d6 points of
Force damage and moves -1 step along the condition track (see Conditions,
page 148). If the attack misses, the target takes half damage and does not
move along the condition track.

Special: You can spend a Force Point to move a target an additional
-1 step along the condition track when you successfully hit it with Force
lightning.

FORCE SLAM
You pound one or more creatures with the Force. Time: Standard action.
Targets: All targets within a 6-square cone and within line of sight.

Make a Use the Force check. Make one roll and compare the result to
each target's Fortitude Defense. If the result equals or exceeds a target's
Fortitude Defense, it takes 4d6 points of Force damage and is knocked prone.
If the result is less than a target's Fortitude Defense, it takes half damage
and is not knocked prone. This is an area effect.

Special: When you use this power, you can spend a Force Point to deal
an additional 2d6 points of damage to targets in the area.

IA BSiavHoS

BgeXHel) 9sHL



--- Page 99 ---
iA SSiSevHS _)

geHec) SHL

FORCE STUN

You call upon the Force to overload an enemy's senses, potentially stunning
it. Time: Standard action. Targets: One creature within 6 squares or within
your line of sight.

Make a Use the Force check. Compare the result to the target's Will
Defense. If the check result equals or exceeds the target's Will Defense, the
target moves -1 step along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148).
For every 5 points by which you exceed the target's Will Defense, the target
moves an additional -1 step along the condition track.

Special: When you use this power, you can spend a Force Point to move
the target an additional -1 step along the condition track.

FORCE THRUST
You use the Force to push a target away from you. Time: Standard action.
Targets: One object or character within 12 squares and within line of sight.

Make a Use the Force check. The target makes a Strength check. If

Yr beat the target's Strength check, you push it back 1 square plus an

additional square for every 5 points by which you exceed the target's check
result. If you push the target into a larger object, the target takes 1d6 points
of damage.

The target adds its size modifier to its Strength check: Colossal, +20;
Gargantuan, +15; Huge, +10; Large, +5; Medium, +0; Small, -5; Tiny, -10;
Diminutive, -15; Fine, -20. In addition, it gets a +5 stability bonus if it has
more than two legs or is otherwise exceptionally stable.

Special: You can spend a Force Point to apply a -5 penalty to the target's
Strength check to resist your Force thrust. Additionally, if you successfully
push the target into a larger object, you deal an additional 2d6 points of
damage from the extreme force of the thrust.

MIND TRICK [MIND-AFFECTING]
You use the Force to alter a target's perceptions or plant a suggestion in its
mind. Time: Standard action. Target: One Intelligence 3 or higher creature
in line of sight and within 12 squares of you.

Make a Use the Force check. If you equal or exceed the target's Will
Defense, you may choose one of the following effects:

—You create a fleeting hallucination that distracts the target and enables
you to use the Stealth skill even if the target is aware of you.

—You perform a feint so that the next attack you make against the target
ignores its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense (if any).

—You make an otherwise unpalatable suggestion seem completely reason-
able to the target. You must be able to communicate with the target, and
the suggestion can't obviously threaten the target's life. The target won't
realize later that what he did is unacceptable.

—You fill the target with terror, causing it to flee from you at top speed
for 1 minute. The affected creature stops fleeing if it is wounded. The effect

“THE FORCE CAN

HAVE A STRONG

INFLUENCE ON A
WEAK MIND.”

—- OBI-WAN KENOBI

is negated if the target's level is equal to or higher than your character level.
This is a fear effect.

Special: If you are making a suggestion, you may spend a Force Point
to improve the target's attitude by one step, plus one additional step for
every 5 points by which your Use the Force check exceeds the target's Will
Defense.

MOvE OBYUECT

You telekinetically move a target up to 6 squares in any direction using

the Force. Time: Standard action. Target: One character or object within 6 Y
squares or within your line of sight.

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines
the maximum size of the target you can lift (see below). If the target is
a creature that resists your attempt, your Use the Force check must also
exceed the target's Will Defense. You can hurl the target at (or drop it on)
another target in range if your Use the Force check exceeds the second
target's Reflex Defense. Both targets take damage determined by your Use
the Force check result.

DC 15: Move object up to Medium size (deals 2d6 points of damage)

DC 20: Move object up to Large size (deals 4d6 points of damage)

DC 25: Move object up to Huge size (deals 6d6 points of damage)

DC30: Move object up to Gargantuan size (deals 8d6 points of
damage)

DC 35: Move object up to Colossal size (deals 10d6 points of damage)

Special: You may maintain your concentration on the targeted object
to continue to move it from round to round. Maintaining the move object Y
power is a standard action.

If you use move object against a hovering or flying target (such as a
speeder or starship), the target can oppose your Use the Force check with
a grapple check as a reaction. If the target wins the opposed check, you are
unable to move the target.

You may spend a Force Point to increase the maximum size of the object
by one category and deal an additional 2d6 points of damage (maximum
size Colossal [frigate], 12d6 damage). Alternatively, you may spend a Destiny
Point (see page 112) to increase the maximum size of the object by three


--- Page 100 ---
categories and deal an additional 6d6 points of damage (maximum size
Colossal [station], 16d6 damage).

NEGATE ENERGY

You spontaneously negate a single attack that deals energy weapon damage,
such as a lightsaber or blaster. Time: Reaction. Target: One attack made
against you that deals energy weapon damage.

Make a Use the Force check. If the result of the check equals or exceeds
the damage dealt by the energy weapon, the attack is negated and you take
no damage. If your check result is less than the amount of damage dealt,
you fail to negate the attack and take damage as normal.

Special: You must be aware of the attack (and not flat-footed) to negate
it. If you are successful, you can spend a Force Point to regain hit points
equal to the damage of the negated attack, up to a maximum of your full
normal hit points.

eBe8Ed 9sAL


--- Page 101 ---
IA BSlagvHgd

QS ®

gaeeXHe@d SHL

)

Q

REBUKE

You harmlessly absorb or deflect one Force power or used against you, per-
haps even turning it against its creator. Time: Reaction. Target: One Force
power directed at you.

Make a Use the Force check. If your result equals or exceeds the check
result of the power directed at you, you harmlessly redirect it and suffer no
ill effects. If you result exceeds the check result of the power directed at you
by 5 or more, you may choose to turn the Force power against its creator,
who suffers the effect.

Special: If you successfully reflect a Force power back at its originator, the
originator may attempt to rebuke the power as well. If he reflects it back again,
both you and the originator are affected by the Force power. You can spend a
Force Point as a reaction to suffer no ill effects from a Force power that has been
rebuked twice—once by you and once by the power's originator.

SEVER FORCE [LIGHT SIDE]
You can block another Force-user's access to the Force, preventing him from
spending Force Points and making it difficult for him to use Force powers.
Time: Standard action. Target: One Force-using creature with a Dark Side
Score of 1 or higher that is within 12 squares and within line of sight.

Make a Use the Force check. If your Use the Force check equals or
exceeds the target's Will Defense, the effect (if any) is determined by your
check result:

DC 25: The target cannot spend Force Points for a number of hours equal
to its Dark Side Score.

DC 30: As DC 25, plus the target moves -1 step along the condition track
(see page 149) each time it uses a Force power in the same timeframe.

DC 35: As DC 35, except the target moves -2 steps along the condition
track each time it uses a Force power in the same timeframe.

Special: This Force power has no effect on targets with a Dark Side
Score of 0.

You can spend a Force Point to double the duration of the effect. Alterna-
tively, you can spend a Destiny Point (see page 112) to increase the duration
to a number of days equal to the target's Dark Side Score.

SuURGE
The Force enables you to jump great heights and distances as well as move
quickly. Time: Swift action. Target: You.

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the
effect, if any:

DC 10: You gain a +10 Force bonus on Jump checks and your speed
increases by 2 squares until the start of your next turn. The Force bonus on
Jump checks includes the adjustment for increased speed.

DC 15: As DC 10 except: +20 Force bonus on Jump checks, speed increases
by 4 squares.

DC 20: As DC 10 except: +30 Force bonus on Jump checks, speed increases
by 6 squares.

Special: You can spend a Force Point to increase the power's Force bonus
on Jump checks by 10 and increase your speed by an additional 2 squares.

VITAL TRANSFER [LIGHT SIDE]
You use your own life force to heal another living creature, using the Force
as a conduit. Time: Standard action. Target: One creature touched.

Make a Use the Force check. The result of the check determines the
effect, if any:

DC 15: The target heals hit points equal to 2 x its character level.

DC 20: The target heals hit points equal to 3 x its character level.

DC 25: The target heals hit points equal to 4 x its character level.

Each time you use vital transfer, you take half as much damage as you
heal (rounded down).

Special: You may spend a Force Point to avoid taking any damage when
you use this Force power. You may spend a Destiny Point (see page 112) to
move the target +5 steps on the condition track in addition to healing it
normally.

FORCE TALENTS

Force talents work exactly like the talents presented in Chapter 3: Heroic
Classes; however, they are available only to characters with the Force Sen-
sitivity feat (see page 85). Any time a character with the Force Sensitivity
feat would normally gain a talent (such as from gaining an odd-numbered
level in a heroic class), he or she may instead select a Force talent from
one of the four Force talent trees presented below. If a character with the
Force Sensitivity feat is a member of a Force tradition (see page 106), he or
she may instead select a Force talent from that tradition's individual Force
talent tree.

ALTER TALENT TREE
The Force grants you considerable power over your environment as well as
others around you.

Disciplined Strike: Whenever you use a Force power that has a cone
effect (such as Force slam), you may exclude a certain number of targets
from the effects of that power. The number of targets that you may exclude
in this manner is equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of 1).

Telekinetic Power: Whenever you roll a natural 20 on your Use the Force
check to activate the Force disarm, Force grip, Force slam, Force thrust, or
move object Force powers, you may choose to use that Force power again
immediately as a free action. You may direct the second use of the Force
power against any eligible target.

Telekinetic Savant: Once per encounter as a swift action, you may return
one of these Force powers to your suite without spending a Force Point: Force
disarm, Force grip, Force slam, Force thrust, or move object.

Y

Y


--- Page 102 ---
You may select this talent multiple times. Each time you select it, you
may use this talent one additional time per encounter.

CONTROL TALENT TREE
You have learned how to regulate your own body systems, control your
emotions, and channel the Force.

Damage Reduction 10: You can spend a Force Point as a standard
action to gain damage reduction 10 for 1 minute (see Damage Reduction,
page 158).

Equilibrium: As a swift action, you can spend a Force Point to remove
all debilitating conditions affecting you and return to a normal state (see
Conditions, page 148).

Force Focus: As a full-round action, you may make a DC 15 Use the
Force check. If the check succeeds, you regain one spent Force power of
your choice.

Force Recovery: Whenever you use your second wind (see Second Wind,
page 146), you regain a number of additional hit points equal to 1d6 per
Force Point you possess (maximum 10d6).

Prerequisite: Equilibrium.

DARK SIDE TALENT TREE
The path to the dark side of the Force is the quick and easy path, granting
amazing power but forever dominating the destinies of those in its grasp.

You must have a Dark Side Score of 1 or higher to select talents from
this tree; if your Dark Side Score is ever reduced to 0, you lose access to all
talents in this talent tree until your Dark Side Score increases.

Power of the Dark Side: You allow your hatred to fuel your attacks.
Whenever you spend a Force Point to modify an attack roll, you may choose
to roll an additional bonus die and take the best result. However, doing so
increases your Dark Side Score by 1.

For example, a 1st-level character with this talent could increase his Dark
Side Score by 1 to roll 2d6 instead of 1d6, taking the best die result and
applying it as a bonus on his attack roll.

Dark Presence: As a standard action, you grant yourself and all allies
within 6 squares of you a +1 Force bonus to all defenses until the end of the
encounter. These bonuses are lost if you fall unconscious or die. Affected
allies that move out of range lose the benefits for as long as they remain
out of range.

Prerequisites: Charisma 13, Power of the Dark Side.

Revenge: Whenever an ally of equal or higher level than you is killed or
reduced to 0 hit points within your line of sight, you gain a +2 Force bonus
on attack rolls and damage rolls until the end of the encounter. (Since Force
bonuses do not stack, you don't get a higher bonus if more than one ally
falls in the same encounter.)

Prerequisites: Dark Presence, Power of the Dark Side.

Swift Power: Once per day, you can use a Force power that normally
takes a standard action or move action as a swift action.
Prerequisite: Power of the Dark Side.

SENSE TALENT TREE
Your attunement to the Force grants you uncanny powers of perception.

Force Perception: You can make a Use the Force check instead of a
Perception check to avoid surprise, notice enemies, sense deception, or sense
influence (see the Perception skill, page 70). You are considered trained in
the Perception skill for purposes of using this talent. If you are entitled to
a Perception check reroll, you may reroll your Use the Force check instead
(subject to the same circumstances and limitations).

Force Pilot: You can use your Use the Force check modifier instead of your
Pilot check modifier when making Pilot checks. You are considered trained in
the Pilot skill for purposes of using this talent. If you are entitled to a Pilot
check reroll, you may reroll your Use the Force check instead (subject to the
same circumstances and limitations).

Foresight: You may spend a Force Point to reroll an Initiative check,
keeping the better of the two rolls. Additionally, if you roll a natural 20 on
the Initiative check reroll, you immediately regain the Force Point spent to
activate this talent.

Prerequisite: Force Perception.

Gauge Force Potential: By focusing on a specific creature in your line of
sight, you can gauge how strong in the Force it is. This takes a standard action
and requires a Use the Force check. If your check result meets or beats the
target's Will Defense, you know whether or not it has the Force Sensitivity feat,
you know how many Force powers it knows (but not which ones, specifically),
and you know how many Force Points it has currently.

Prerequisite: Force Perception.

Visions: Whenever you use the farseeing Force power, you can spend a
Force Point as a swift action to see into the target's past or future instead of
the glimpsing the target in the present. You declare how far into the target's
past or future you wish to look, up to a maximum of 1 year per your character
level. Any information gained about a target's future is subject to change,
depending on whether steps are taken to alter that future.

Prerequisites: Force Perception, farseeing.

FORCE TECHNIQUES

Force techniques represent a deeper understanding of the Force and, like
martial skills, usually come with years of practice. A few gifted or devoted
Force-users learn to master them more quickly. In general, Force techniques
are only available to characters with levels in certain Force-using prestige
classes (such as the Force adept, Jedi Knight, and Sith apprentice).
Whenever you gain access to a new Force technique, select it from the
following list. Once selected, a Force technique cannot be changed.

GaHed SHA fais Bsteve5



--- Page 103 ---
1A SSLaevHo

gShCOq) IAL |

Force Point Recovery
At the end of an encounter, you automatically recover 1 Force Point spent
during the encounter.

You may select this Force technique multiple times; each time you take
it, you recover an additional Force Point spent during an encounter.

Force Power Mastery
Choose a single Force power. You may take 10 on Use the Force checks to
activate this Force power even when distracted or threatened.

You may select this Force technique multiple times; each time you select
this Force technique, it applies to a different Force power.

Improved Force Trance
Each hour you remain in a Force trance (see the Use the Force skill, page 77),
you regain a number of hit points equal to 2 x your character level.


--- Page 104 ---
DISTURBANCES

IN THE FORCE

All life shines in the Force, very much the way gravity wells in realspace
are reflected in hyperspace. A single person not particularly attuned
to the Force flickers like a candle in the night, making but the slightest
impression in the Force. A Force-user shines more brightly, especially
when manipulating the Force. Each time a Force-user calls upon the
Force, a slight tremor ripples through it that can be perceived by other
Force-users. Used sparingly and in harmony with the natural balance,
such ripples can barely be detected. When a user constantly calls upon
the Force to alter the world around him, the ripples become quakes that
can be felt at great distances. Such quakes attract attention, making
those who have less refined control over the Force or who rely on the
Force too frequently the target of more powerful Force-users. It is
believed that through such methods the Empire was able to hunt down
stray Force-users in the years leading up to the Galactic Civil War.

Improved Move Light Object

You may make a Use the Force check to move a light object as a swift action
instead of a move action. Using the light object as a projectile weapon
requires a move action (instead of a standard action).

Improved Sense Force
You may use the sense Force ability of the Use the Force skill (see page 77)
as a move action rather than a full-round action.

Improved Sense Surroundings
You may use the sense surroundings ability of the Use the Force skill (see
page 77) as a free action rather than a swift action.

Improved Telepathy
Whenever you use the telepathy ability of the Use the Force skill (see page
77), you can reroll your Use the Force check and keep the better result.

FORCE SECRETS

Skilled Force-users can learn to manipulate their Force powers in intriguing
ways. Force secrets represent a sublime connection of the Force and are
usually available only to powerful Force-users such as Force disciples, Jedi
Masters, and Sith Lords (see Chapter 12: Prestige Classes).

Activating a Force secret costs either a Force Point or a Destiny Point (as
noted in its description), and the normal limits on spending Force Points and
Destiny Points during a round apply. (See Chapter 7: Heroic Traits for more
information on Destiny Points.)

Whenever you learn a new Force secret, select it from the following list.
Once selected, a Force secret cannot be changed.

Devastating Power

When using a Force power that deals damage, you can spend a Force Point
to increase the power's damage dice by 50%. Alternatively, you can spend
a Destiny Point to double the number of damage dice.

Distant Power

When using a Force power that has a range expressed numerically, you can

spend a Force Point to multiply the range by 10. Alternatively, you can spend a

Destiny Point to increase the range to anywhere in the same star system.
This Force secret does not remove line of sight requirements.

Multitarget Power

When using a Force power that affects a single target, you can spend a Force
Point to affect one additional target. Alternatively, you can spend a Destiny
Point to affect one target per four character levels.

Quicken Power

When using a Force power that requires a standard action or move action
to activate, you can spend a Force Point to activate the power as a swift
action instead. Alternatively, you can spend a Destiny Point to activate the
power as a reaction instead.

Shaped Power

When using a Force power with a cone area effect (such as Force slam),
you can spend a Force Point to instead affect a line 1 square wide and (5 x
cone's length) squares long. Alternatively, when using a Force power with
a cone area effect, you can spend a Destiny Point to instead affect one or
more targets of your choice within a number of squares of you equal to the
cone's length.

FORCE-USING
TRADITIONS

Even those who don't believe in the Force and aren't particularly attuned to
its flow can call upon the Force without understanding exactly what they
are doing. When a stroke of amazing luck occurs, or fate seems to be on your
side and helps you accomplish a difficult objective, it could be the Force
coming to your aid. In game terms, the expenditure of Force Points by non-
Force-using characters represents this unconscious, tenuous connection to
the Force that all living beings share. When a Force-using character calls on
the Force in this way, he or she knows exactly what's happening.

The most prominent and well-known Force-users in the galaxy are the
Jedi. However, the Jedi are not the only ones who have learned to manipulate

iA wsaavHo _)

0

ge8Oc SAL



--- Page 105 ---
IA BSietvHg

geHed SAL

the Force. Other Force-users sometimes attribute their abilities to sources
other than the Force, such as magic or gods, but they are all using the
energy to manipulate the world around them. In game terms, anyone with
the Force Sensitivity feat has the ability to master the Use the Force skill
and learn Force powers, though many of these beings will never go down
this particular path.

Other Force-using traditions include dark side cults (such as the Sith), and
obscure, isolated sects such as the Witches of Dathomir and the Sorcerers
of Tund. Some know the Force for what it is but approach its use in a dif-
ferent way from the Jedi. Others know the Force by a different name. Either
way, it remains the mystic energy that binds the galaxy together and gives
Force-users their powers.

Membership: The conditions for being considered a member of a given
Force tradition are outlined in the description. A character may be a member
of more than one Force tradition, but this is uncommon.

THE JEDI
There is no emotion; there is peace.
There is no ignorance; there is knowledge.
There is no passion; there is serenity.
There is no death; there is the Force.
—from The Jedi Code

For centuries, the group of philosophers that would eventually become the
Jedi contemplated the mysteries of the energy field known as the Force.
Eventually, some of the group's members mastered the Force. After that,
they dedicated themselves to using their newfound skills and powers for
good, helping those in need. In the thousands of years that followed, the Jedi
served as protectors of the Galactic Republic. Answering to their own Jedi
council and operating in concordance with the Judicial Department of the
office of the Supreme Chancellor, the Jedi became the guardians of peace
and justice in the galaxy.

The Jedi, in addition to battling interstellar criminals and settling galactic
disputes, served as mediators, defenders, and teachers. Because of their sense
of honor and the epic challenges they undertook, the Jedi became legends,

“THE FORCE
WEDI HIS POWER.

serving as symbols of the best the Republic had to offer. With lightsabers
at their sides and the power of the Force flowing through them, the Jedi
accomplished the tasks set before them with dedication and seeming invin-
cibility. But invincibility was only an illusion. Jedi often died in the defense
of freedom and justice.

During the Rise of the Empire era (circa Episodes I-III), ten thousand Jedi
served the Republic and defended its vast territory. They identified potential
recruits early in life, usually within the first six months of a child's existence.
As infants, those attuned to the Force and accepted by the Jedi Council
were taken to begin their training. Older children, if identified later in life as
being Force-sensitive, were refused training in most cases; the Jedi believed
that the fear and anger in older children made them too susceptible to the
dark side, and so it was unwise to train them. All characters playing in this
era that are Jedi Padawan learners (Jedi class level 1st through 6th) have a
master (Jedi class level 7th or higher). While there may be times when the
master and the Padawan travel together, most of their interaction happens
between adventures, while all characters are training and improving. The
master is a GM character, offering training, advice, and aid when the GM
feels such aid is appropriate and necessary. Unfortunately, by the end of this
time period, Anakin Skywalker has turned to the dark side and the Emperor
has slaughtered nearly all the Jedi.

During the Rebellion era, the Jedi purge has been completed. All but a
handful of Force-users, let alone fully trained Jedi, were exterminated or
corrupted to the dark side and placed in the service of the Emperor. Force-
sensitive individuals, such as Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa, were hidden
from the Empire and cut off from their heritage. More powerful Force-users,
such as Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda, purposely disappeared and worked to stay
unnoticed. Jedi characters in this era eventually attract a teacher, though
the training these Force-users provide is haphazard at best. A would-be Jedi
learns by experience, through occasional meetings with other Force-users,
and even by studying with beings who follow other Force traditions. It's
not easy, which is why Jedi in this period are few and far between, and few
reach the level of power exhibited in earlier or later periods. A Gamemaster
wishing to simulate this experience might require the potential character to

is WHAT GIVES THE
IT's AN ENERGY FIELD

CREATED BY ALL LIVING THINGS.
iT SURROUNDS US AND PENETRATES US.
IT BINDS THE GALAXY TOGETHER."

- OBI-WAN KENOBI!


--- Page 106 ---
THE JEDI CODE

Jedi are the guardians of peace in the galaxy.

Jedi use their powers to defend and protect, never to attack others.

Jedi respect all life, in any form.

Jedi serve others rather than ruling over them, for the good of the

galaxy.

Jedi seek to improve themselves through knowledge and training.

—from The Jedi Code

The philosophy known as the Jedi Code was created to keep young
Jedi students from being drawn to the dark side. It was taught by the
Jedi council to hundreds of thousands of Jedi throughout the ages,
Obi-Wan Kenobi and Master Yoda taught parts of it to Luke Skywalker,
and Luke Skywalker passed on what he had learned to his students at
the Jedi academy.

At its heart, the Jedi Code provides simple instructions for living
in touch with the Force. A Jedi never uses the Force to gain wealth or
personal power. Instead, a Jedi uses the Force to find knowledge and
enlightenment. Anger, fear, aggression, and other negative emotions
lead to the dark side, so Jedi are taught to act only when they are at
peace with the Force.

Jedi are encouraged to find nonviolent solutions whenever possible.
They should act from wisdom, using persuasion and counsel instead
of Force powers and violence. When all else fails, or to save a life, a
Jedi must sometimes resort to battle in order to resolve a particularly
dangerous situation. Though combat may sometimes be the best answer,
it should never be the first option a Jedi explores.

Because of their connection to the Force, the Jedi sense its flow
and draw upon its energy. While doing so, a Jedi sometimes perceives
disturbances in the Force. These disturbances can be explained by the
presence of powerful Force-users in the area, or intense emotions that
cry out in the Force, such as when the life of the planet Alderaan was
extinguished by the Death Star. There are even times when such distur-
bances result in feelings of urgency or premonitions that spur a Jedi to
a place or situation where she is needed. This aspect and manifestation
of the Force is covered by the Use the Force skill.

have at least one non-Force-using class level before allowing them to take
levels in the Jedi class.

In The New Jedi Order era, Luke Skywalker has trained about one hundred
Jedi and identified perhaps a dozen others in need of training. Prominent
Force-users such as Mara Jade Skywalker and Corran Horn help Skywalker
train and coordinate the efforts of these Jedi, while promising students such

as the Solo children and Ganner Rhysode show great promise for the future.
Jedi characters again receive a higher-level mentor who provides training and
advice between adventures or when the Gamemaster deems such interaction
to be warranted and important to a mission.

Membership: Any character with the Force Sensitivity feat can become
a member of the Jedi tradition by being accepted as an apprentice by a Jedi
Knight or Jedi Master.

THE SITH
Peace is a lie, there is only passion.
Through passion, | gain strength.
Through strength, | gain power.
Through power, | gain victory.
Through victory, my chains are broken.
The Force shall free me.
—from The Sith Code

An ancient order of Force-users devoted to the dark side and determined
to destroy the Jedi, the Sith have existed in many forms throughout the
history of the Galaxy. The original Sith were a near-Human population on
Korriban, subjugated and ruled by outcast Dark Jedi several thousand years
before the Battle of Yavin. The name "Sith" eventually came to refer to the
dark side cult that ruled the Sith people (that is, the "Lords of the Sith").
When the Old Republic discovered the Sith Empire thousands of years later,
it led to the Great Hyperspace War, the first of a long series of conflicts that
ravaged the galaxy over the next few millennia. Eventually, the Sith Empire
(now known as the "Old Sith") was destroyed, and all it left behind were
ancient holocrons and the ruined tombs and temples on Korriban, Yavin 4,
and a handful of other planets throughout the galaxy.

The current incarnation of the Sith (the “New Sith") is the result of another
Dark Jedi who broke away from the order. Two thousand years before the
Battle of Yavin, this Dark Jedi had come to the understanding that the true
power of the Force lay not through contemplation and passivity but by tap-
ping into one's emotions and the dark side. Renaming himself Darth Ruin, he
stole a Sith Holocron from the archives of the Jedi order and began gathering
followers to his banner. Awakening beliefs from the dark past, the new Sith
cult continued to grow, driven by the promise of new powers attainable by
tapping into the hateful energies of the dark side. It was only a matter of
time before the order self-destructed. Internecine struggles by power-hungry
Sith practitioners dwindled their numbers. Weakened by infighting, the Sith
were easily wiped out by the Jedi at the Battle of Ruusan, one thousand years
after Darth Ruin founded the order.

However, one Sith had the cunning to survive. Darth Bane restructured
the cult so that there could only be two—no more, no less: a master and
an apprentice. Bane adopted cunning, subterfuge, and stealth as the fun-
damental tenets of the new Sith order. Bane took an apprentice. When that

geHed FAL

0
I
d
v
of
0
2
:



--- Page 107 ---
IA BSidvyHgDd

geves aH

apprentice succeeded him, that new Sith Lord would take an apprentice.
Thus, the Sith quietly continued for centuries, until the time of Darth Sidi-
ous. With great cunning and treachery, Sidious fomented a galactic civil war
within the Republic, seized control of the Galactic Senate, wiped out the Jedi
order, and replaced the Old Republic with the Galactic Empire. With Sidious
as the Emperor and Darth Vader as his loyal apprentice, the Sith ruled the
galaxy and plunged it into darkness. It remained so for decades until a new
hope arose to bring Darth Vader back from the dark side and extinguish the
menace of the Sith.
The Sith order rises once again in the Legacy era, some 140 years after
the Battle of Yavin. The new Sith are led
by the enigmatic Darth Krayt and serve
as dark side enforcers to the reincar-
nated Empire. Though the Sith are not
as common as the Jedi were during the
days of the Old Republic, it is not uncommon to
have a Sith apprentice or Sith Lord attached to an
important mission or garrison.
Membership: Any character
with the Force Sensitivity feat can
become a member of the Sith tra-
dition by being accepted as an
apprentice by a Sith Lord. During
the Rise of the Empire era, there
can be only one Sith Lord and one
Sith apprentice. Thus, the only way
to join the Sith tradition during this
era is to wait (or arrange) for one of
the two Sith to die.

OTHER ie
FORCE-

USING
TRADITIONS

The Jedi and the Sith are not the
only Force-users in the galaxy.
Several other traditions have sprung
up over the course of history,
some lasting for many years and
some extinguished during Darth
Vader's purge of the Jedi. Most
such Force-users receive only
rudimentary training, while
others develop their own skills

and abilities by simple trial and
error. A few of the more orga-

nized Force-using sects have learned a great deal about the Force and can
become powerful even without the benefit of thousands of years of tradition
and philosophy. On the whole, the Jedi order typically attempts to root out
these Force-users and assimilate them, or at least keep tabs on them.

The following two Force-using sects are suitable for use in the Star Wars
Roleplaying Game, though certainly there are others that would work as
well. Each tradition has a Force talent tree associated with it; like the Force
talents presented earlier in the chapter, these talents are available only to
characters with the Force Sensitivity feat (page 85), and even then only if
the character is a member of that tradition.

The Jensaarai
The Jensaarai sect of Force-users came into existence near the end
of the Clone Wars and is relatively young compared to other Force
traditions. Founded by an Anzati Dark Jedi, Nikkos
Tyris, the Jensaarai blend teachings of Jedi and
Sith philosophy to form something altogether
different. Unfortunately, a short time after Tyris
and a band of rogue Jedi split off to form their
movement, the Jedi Council dispatched several

Jedi Knights to put an end to their rebellion. The

Jedi accomplished their mission, killing Tyris
and his comrades, but unknowingly leaving
behind the families and students of the
new Jensaarai tradition. The surviving
Jensaarai laid in wait as Darth Vader's
purge of the Jedi swept through the
galaxy, coming close to extinction
themselves on occasion but surviv-
ing nonetheless. After the fall of
the Empire, Luke Skywalker and
Corran Horn discovered the Jen-
saarai and made them fast allies,
even bringing some of them into the
New Jedi Order.

The Jensaarai walk a dangerous line
between light and darkness. Though
their dark Jedi Masters died early at
the hands of the Council's agents, the

Jensaarai followers retained much of

the philosophy (if not the Sith secrets)

that Tyris had used to found the order.
The Jensaarai resemble both the Jedi and the
Sith in many ways; they construct and wield
lightsabers, they defend their planet from hostile
forces, and they have a strong grasp of the Force


--- Page 108 ---
and its ways. Still, they remain quite different in other respects. Jensaarai
Defenders construct suits of armor, fashioning them after creatures they
feel fit their personalities, and they can be violent and ruthless when
necessary. Though many Jensaarai Defenders run the risk of falling to
the dark side, very few actually do, as discipline and awareness of the
repercussions of their actions are two of the most important tenets of
Jensaarai training.

Membership: Any character with the Force Sensitivity feat can become
a member of the Jensaarai tradition by being accepted as an apprentice by
a Force adept or Force disciple who is a member of the Jensaarai. In addi-
tion, any character with the Force Sensitivity who is native to the Suarbi
system (during the Rise of the Empire era and onward) is likely a member of
the Jensaarai tradition.

JENSAARAI DEFENDER TALENT TREE

The Jensaarai walk a thin line between light and darkness, using the teach-
ings of both the Jedi and the Sith to create their own unique traditions.
Only Force-users that are part of the Jensaarai tradition may select talents
from this tree.

Attune Armor: As a full-round action, you may spend a Force Point to
attune a suit of armor to the Force, permanently increasing its armor bonus
by +2. In addition, the maximum Dexterity bonus of the attuned armor per-
manently improves by +1. Only you can benefit from wearing the attuned
armor; the benefits do not apply if someone else dons the armor.

Force Cloak: As a swift action, you can surround yourself with an invis-
ible bubble of Force power that shields you and anything you're carrying
from electronic surveillance. The bubble also blocks all electronic sensors
and communications. The Force cloak lasts for as long as you concentrate
(a standard action) or until the start of your next turn.

Force Cloak Mastery: As the Force Cloak talent, except that you can
expand the bubble to envelop a number of creatures (including yourself)
equal to your character level.

Prerequisite: Force Cloak.

Linked Defense: As a swift action, you can take a penalty of up to -5 on
your attack roll and add the same number (up to +5) as a Force bonus to an
ally's Reflex Defense, provided the ally is within your line of sight when you
activate this talent. The bonus you confer cannot exceed your base attack
bonus. The changes to your attack rolls and your ally's Reflex Defense last
until the start of your next turn.

The Witches of Dathomir

Native to the planet Dathomir, the witches were some of the first non-Jedi
Force-users encountered by Luke Skywalker during his quest to rebuild the
Jedi Order. Some 600 years before the Clone Wars, the Jedi Order banished
a Jedi named Allya to the primitive planet of Dathomir. In exile, she founded
her own sect of Force adepts, selectively breeding with a group of exiled

arms dealers, and within decades had created a Force-using society to rule.
Though ruthless, Allya maintained a strict rule of law (even authoring a tome
called the Book of Law for her followers to use as an example). After Allya’s
death, the society fragmented into six clans, and despite Allya's command
to never concede to evil, some of the witches she trained fell to the dark
side, becoming the Nightsisters.

The Witches of Dathomir are part of a primitive culture with a strong
yet rudimentary grasp of the Force. Though much of their own knowledge is
derived from the Jedi arts, over the centuries their lifestyle and philosophies
have shaped their knowledge of the Force to fit their own needs. The Witches
of Dathomir train and ride fearsome rancors, using the Force to communicate
with them. Though their tribal organization makes them seem primitive, they
are sophisticated and knowledgeable Force-users who, despite their rustic
lifestyle, have evolved Force powers seemingly unheard of to other sects.

Membership: Only female natives of Dathomir (from the Rise of the
Empire era onward) with the Force Sensitivity feat can be members of the
Witches of Dathomir tradition.

DATHOMIRI WITCH TALENT TREE

The Force-using witches of the planet Dathomir are primitive yet powerful
beings. They use ancient training handed down for generations as the basis
of their powers.

Adept Spellcaster: You may use any Force power that normally requires a
swift action, move action, or standard action as a full-round action instead.
If you choose to do so, you may reroll your Use the Force check to activate
that power, but you must accept the result of the reroll, even if it is worse.

Charm Beast: You may make a Use the Force check in place of a Persua-
sion check when attempting to change the attitude of an undomesticated
creature with an Intelligence of 2 or less. Additionally, you do not take the
normal -5 penalty on the check if the creature can't speak or understand
your language.

Command Beast: Whenever you manage to shift the attitude of a beast
to indifferent or friendly, you may treat that creature as a domesticated
animal—but for you only (it remains undomesticated in its response to other
creatures). Additionally, you may use this beast as a mount, as per the Ride
skill (see page 72), provided that it is at least one size category larger than
you and has a comfortable place for you to sit. For more information on
beasts, see page 273.

Prerequisite: Charm Beast.

Flight: As a swift action, you can spend a Force Point to fly. You gain
a fly speed equal to your land speed, and you can ascend at half speed or
descend at double speed. The flight lasts until the start of your next turn; if
you're still airborne at that time, you fall.

Prerequisite: Adept Spellcaster.

WIA SSsidvwHg

gSHed 9sH4



--- Page 109 ---
CHAPTER VII



--- Page 110 ---
at does your character look like? How old is he (or she)? What sort of first
pression does he make? What led him to become a hero?

his chapter covers a miscellany of topics that apply to your character.
helps you establish your character's identity and place in the Star Wars
verse and make him or her more lifelike—like a main character in a Star
" movie or novel. For many players, this is the true expression of roleplay-
ing: defining the character that you are going to play.

When you first play a character, it's fine to leave some of the details
sketchy. Over time, as adventures play out, you'll get a better sense of who
you want your character to be. You'll develop your character's details much
the way an author develops a character over several chapters in a novel or
over several novels in a series.

DETAILS

This section offers advice as you determine details about your character,
including his or her name, age, appearance, and personality. Start with some
idea about your character's background and personality, and use that idea
to develop the details that bring your character to life.

NAME

_ Invent or choose a name that fits your character's species and class. Chapter
2: Species contains some examples of alien names. A name is a great way
‘for you to start thinking about your character's background. For instance, a
’ Rodian scout might be named after a great Rodian hunter of the past, and
the Rodian may be striving to live up to that heritage. Alternatively, the name
could be that of an infamous traitor, and the hero could be bent on proving
that she's not like her namesake.

A name can also tell a lot about a character and help establish an image
in your mind and the minds of the other players. It doesn't have to be
descriptive, but you want it to fit the type of character you're going to play.
\ Use the sample names to help you make up a name that has the appropriate
4 Star Wars feel.

.,GCE

scharacter's age is pretty much up to you (subject to the Gamemaster's
oval). A character reaches 1st level in a heroic class at the point when
teps out of mundane life and into the drama of the story, either by
ough circumstances beyond the character's control. That could
adult for a Padawan learner, as a 20-year-old adult (such as
uke Skywalker in A New Hope), or as an even older character,
ur character concept.

|
|
|
|
|
|
|

HWA HStLavHo



--- Page 111 ---
j

A Hslavno

SHVHL SH1oe8s-

SPECIES CHILD YOUNG ADULT ADULT

Human 1-11 years 12-15 years 16-40 years
Bothan 1-11 years 12-16 years 17-45 years
Cerean 1-10 years 11-15 years 16-35 years
Duros 1-9 years 10-14 years 15-35 years
Ewok 1-9 years 10-13 years 14-29 years
Gamorrean 1-6 years 7-12 years 13-29 years
Gungan 1-12 years 13-15 years 16-35 years
Ithorian 1-13 years 14-17 years 18-44 years
Kel Dor 1-11 years 12-15 years 16-44 years
Mon Calamari 1-11 years 12-16 years 17-40 years
Quarren ]-11 years 12-16 years 17-40 years
Rodian 1-12 years 13-15 years 16-35 years
Sullustan 1-9 years 10-14 years 15-39 years
Trandoshan 1-11 years 12-14 years 15-34 years
Twi'lek 1-12 years 13-15 years 16-44 years
Wookiee 1-12 years 13-17 years 18-300 years
Zabrak 1-8 years 9-14 years 15-44 years

Table 7-1: Age by Species gives age ranges for the various species pre-
sented in Chapter 2: Species. As your hero ages, his or her physical ability
scores (Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution) decrease and his or her mental
ability scores (Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma) increase, as shown in
Table 7-2: Aging Effects). The effects of each aging step are cumulative.
However, none of a character's ability scores can be reduced below 1 in
this way.

First, generate your ability scores as defined in Chapter 1. Then, once your
starting age is determined, apply the modifiers shown on Table 7-2: Aging

Child -3 to Str and Con; -1 to Dex, Int, Wis, and Cha

Young adult -1 to Str, Dex, Con, Int, Wis, and Cha

Adult No modifier

Middle age ~1 to Str, Dex, and Con; +1 to Int, Wis, and Cha
Old -2 to Str, Dex, and Con; +1 to Int, Wis, and Cha

Venerable -3 to Str, Dex, and Con; +1 to Int, Wis, and Cha

MIDDLE AGE OLD VENERABLE

41-59 years 60-79 years 80+ years
46-65 years 66-84 years 85+ years
36-53 years 54-64 years 65+ years
36-49 years 50-69 years 70+ years
30-44 years 45-59 years 60+ years
30-39 years 40-44 years 45+ years
36-54 years 55-64 years 65+ years
45-69 years 70-84 years 85+ years
45-59 years 60-69 years 70+ years
41-57 years 58-79 years 80+ years
41-57 years 58-79 years 80+ years
36-49 years 50-59 years 60+ years
40-55 years 56-69 years 70+ years
35-49 years 50-59 years 60+ years
45-59 years 60-79 years 80+ years
301-350 years 351-399 years 400+ years
45-55 years 56-69 years 70+ years

Effects. Note that the methods described for determining ability scores yield
the scores of an adult character. For example, when a character reaches
middle age, her Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores each drop 1
point, while her Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores each increase
by 1 point. When she becomes old, her physical ability scores all drop an
additional 2 points, while her mental ability scores increase by 1 again. So
far she has lost a total of 3 points from her Strength, Constitution, and
Dexterity scores and gained a total of 2 points to her Wisdom, Intelligence,
and Charisma scores due to aging.

On the other hand, a child would start with a total penalty of -4 to
Strength and Constitution and a -2 penalty to all other abilities (adjustments
are cumulative for both the child and young adult categories). As he advances
to young adulthood, these penalties would be reduced to -1 for each ability
score. He would thus "gain" 3 points to both his Strength and Constitution
and 1 point to each of his other ability scores. When he later becomes an
adult, he would gain 1 point to each of his ability scores.

Jedi live longer than the average member of their species. While a typical
Human lives well into his or her 80s, a Human Jedi might live well into his or
her 100s. The upper limit for a character powerful in the Force can be twice
as much or more than a typical member of a species.


--- Page 112 ---
APPEARANCE

Decide what your character looks like using the descriptions of the various
species in Chapter 2: Species as a starting point. Characters with high Cha-
risma scores tend to be better looking than those with low Charisma scores,
though a character with high Charisma could have strange looks, giving him
or her a sort of exotic beauty.

You can use your hero's looks to tell something about his personality and
background. For example:

—Deel Surool, the Twi'lek scoundrel, always has a smirk on his lips, no
matter what situation he finds himself in. He treats life as a joke where only
he knows the punch line. He wears the latest fashions and comes off as being
mildly superior to everyone around him.

—Vor'en Kurn, the Human soldier, has a rough, dark look that speaks of
the life he has led. His mercenary nature shows through in the way he moves,
the way he wears his armor, and the way his twin blasters hang at his sides.
His eyes are cold, dead, uncaring. You know he means business and that he's
dangerous just by looking at him.

—Sia-Lan Wezz, the Human Jedi, appears confident and in control. She
wears her Jedi robes and lightsaber proudly, and her fresh, young face glows
with enthusiasm and hope. You know you can trust her, and you know she
takes her role very seriously. Perhaps even a bit too seriously.

HEIGHT AND WEIGHT

Table 7-3: Height and Weight presents average heights and weights for the
different species presented in Chapter 2: Species. Your character may be of
average height and weight, or you can make your character lighter, heavier,
shorter, or taller. Think about what your character's abilities might say about
her height and weight. If she is weak but agile, she may be thin. If she is

strong and tough, she may be tall or just heavy.

PERSONALITY
Decide how your character acts, what she likes, what she wants out of life,
what scares her, and what makes her angry. Your character's species is a good
place to start when thinking about personality, but it's a bad place to stop.
Make your Wookiee (or whatever) different from every other Wookiee.

Personality is a summary of how your character usually acts. Make sure it's
interesting and fun for you to play. Give your character good points and bad
points. Think about his code of ethics. Will your character do anything for the
right price, or is there a line he just won't cross? Is your character cheerful
or dour, optimistic or pessimistic, honorable or dishonorable? These are just
some of the factors that could go into your character's personality.

A handy trick for making an interesting personality for your character is
including some sort of conflict in his nature. For example, Deel the scoundrel
is generally self-centered, but he looks out for his close friends. He may be

AVERAGE
HEIGHT

AVERAGE

SPECIES WEIGHT

Human, female 1.6m 55 kg

Cerean, male 2.0m 78 kg

Duros 1.8m 70 kg

Gamorrean 1.8m 140 kg

Ithorian 2.0m 90 kg

Mon Calamari 1.8m 72 kg

Rodian 1.6m 60 kg

Trandoshan 2.0m 80 kg

SLHVSBL AGEs)

Twi'lek, female 1.6 m 55 kg

Wookiee, female 2.0m 100 kg

tempted to help them, even if it goes against his best interests, so long as
he can justify doing so.

Your character's personality can change over time. Just because you've
written some personality notes on your character sheet doesn't mean you
can't let your character grow and develop the way real people do.

Bi:
[ah



--- Page 113 ---
1A HeSiagvyHoa

SUYSEL Hae8SFI

BACKGROUND
Decide what your character's life has been like up until now. Here are a few
questions to get you thinking:

How did she decide to become a hero?

How did she acquire her class? A soldier, for example, might have been
in a planetary militia, she may come from a family of soldiers, she may have
trained in a martial school, or she may be a self-taught mercenary.

Where did she get her starting equipment? Did she assemble it piece by
piece over time? Was it a parting gift from a parent or mentor? Do any items
have special significance to her?

What's the worst thing that's ever happened to her?

What's the best thing that's ever happened to her?

Does she stay in contact with her family? What do they think of her?

Only your GM needs to know all the details of your background. You
can tell the other players as much or as little as you see fit. You can get as
complex as you like, or keep your.character's background simple. Has she
traveled around the galaxy a lot? What's her home planet like? What does
she think of the Republic (or Rebellion, or Empire, or whatever)? Does she
know any of the other players’ characters from before the campaign started?
If not, what's her connection to the rest of the team?

GOALS

Your character might have a number of objectives that he or she hopes to
accomplish. These are the things that motivate your character. Does he seek
wealth or love? Revenge or power? That's up to you and your GM.

Goals can be immediate or long-term. They can also change during play,
and new goals can be added all the time. Think of goals as what's motivating
your character right now, though some long-term goals might fade to the
background until circumstances warrant.

DESTINY

Destiny plays a large role in the Star Wars universe. As a young boy, Anakin
Skywalker is told that his destiny is to bring balance to the Force. Padmé's
destiny is to give birth to the twins, Luke and Leia, so that they can fulfill
their own destinies. Luke Skywalker learns that his destiny is to redeem his
father, Darth Vader, so that balance to the Force is restored. Leia's destiny is
to save the Rebellion from annihilation at the hands of the Empire and help
forge the New Republic. The destiny mechanic helps players and Gamemasters
recognize that all heroes—and even major villains—have significant roles to
play in the fate of the galaxy. Destiny rewards players for good roleplaying
and gives Gamemasters new plot hooks to use when designing adventures.

The rules presented below are optional. A Gamemaster may decide to use
Destiny Points or not; however, the decision to use them should be made
before the campaign gets underway, so that each player can decide whether
or not to embrace a destiny for her character from the outset.

Although conceivably any character—heroic or nonheroic—has a destiny
to fulfill, only heroic characters receive Destiny Points and receive in-game
benefits for pursuing their destinies. Nonheroic characters don't receive
Destiny Points; their destinies, whatever they may be, exist purely on a
story level.

CHOOSING A DESTINY

Players don't need to choose destinies for their heroes at the start of the
campaign—or ever, for that matter. Not every hero has a destiny that must
be fulfilled before the end of the campaign, and even players who want
their characters to have destinies need to give their characters—and the
campaign—a chance to develop first. It may take several adventures before
players understand where the campaign is going and what goals their heroes
are likely to pursue.

Choosing a destiny can be handled in one of two ways: Either the player
can select an appropriate destiny for her hero (based on what's happening in
the campaign), or the Gamemaster can select a secret destiny for the hero.
If the player chooses a destiny for her character, the GM should challenge
the player to fulfill her destiny by presenting conflicting situations where
the smartest and most beneficial decision might force the character to
choose between doing what is best for her fellow heroes and taking steps
toward her destiny. If the GM secretly chooses the hero's destiny, he must
present challenges that let the character move closer to achieving her des-
tiny, imparting benefits when the character is moving in the right direction
and imposing penalties when the character does something that takes her
far from the destined path. The GM-selected "secret destiny" forces the
player to take her character through a period of self-discovery, as she learns
which actions lead her closer to—or farther from—her destiny. In essence,
this mirrors Luke Skywalker's struggle at the end of The Empire Strikes Back,
when he must choose between redeeming his father and falling prey to the
corruption of the dark side.

A character with a destiny gains short-term benefits whenever he makes
significant progress toward fulfilling it, while a character who pursues goals
that move him farther away from his destiny suffers short-term negative
effects. Conversely, a character without a destiny has nothing to gain and
nothing to lose.

DESTINY POINTS
Destiny Points are resources that a player can use to help fulfill whatever
destiny has been set before her character. A 1st-level character begins
play with 1 Destiny Point and gains another Destiny Point at each level. A
Destiny Point allows a hero to perform a nearly impossible task or survive
against all odds.

Only a character with a destiny can gain or spend Destiny Points.


--- Page 114 ---
Spending Destiny Points
Spending a Destiny Point does not take an action and grants one of the
following benefits:

¢ Automatically score a critical hit (no attack roll required).

¢ Automatically cause an attack made against you to miss (even once the
attack is resolved).

¢ Act out of turn (thus changing your position in the initiative order).

® Take damage that would otherwise harm another character within your
reach.

® Increase the effect of some Force powers (as noted in their
descriptions).

¢ Use some applications of Force secrets (as noted in their descriptions).

* Immediately gain 3 Force Points (see Force Points, page 92).

A character may accumulate as many Destiny Points as she has levels.
Thus, a 5th-level character may have as many as 5 Destiny Points if she
doesn't spend any of them.

When a character fulfills his destiny, he can choose to keep the Destiny
Points he has remaining or transfer some or all of them to allied characters.
A character who retains his unspent Destiny Points can't spend them until
he chooses a new destiny. A character who chooses to give away some or all
of his Destiny Points can't give more than 1 Destiny Point to any single ally.
Under no other circumstances may a character transfer his Destiny Points
to another character.

For example, Sia-Lan fulfills her destiny by redeeming a powerful dark-
sider, after which she still has 2 unspent Destiny Points. Sia-Lan decides
to give Vor'en and Rorworr—two of her compatriots—1 Destiny Point each,
leaving her with O Destiny Points.

SAMPLE DESTINIES

The following sample destinies should provide a starting point for any char-
acter wishing to take advantage of the destiny rules. Each destiny includes
a brief description, with examples.

Destiny Bonus: When a character accomplishes a goal or performs a task
that clearly moves him closer to fulfilling his destiny (GM's determination),
he gains this short-term benefit.

Destiny Penalty: When a character does something that clearly moves
him away from his destiny (GM's determination), he suffers this short-term
negative effect.

Destiny Fulfilled: When a character fulfills his destiny, he gains these
permanent benefits. Sometimes fulfilling a destiny has other effects as well;
these are also covered here.

Corruption
Your destiny is to corrupt an individual, organization, or location. You may
seek to turn a person to the dark side or indoctrinate a group of people in the
ways of evil. Your destiny may also be to become corrupted yourself, either
by another character, an organization, or a series of life-changing events
that unfold over time. The corruption should be a long-term goal requiring
a great deal of time and effort.

Examples of this destiny include the Emperor's corruption of Anakin
Skywalker, a dark Force-user transforming a Jedi shrine into a temple of evil,
or an Imperial officer convincing an Alliance cell to betray the Rebellion.

iA SeSidvrHgd

SHVSL a0e8%9)



--- Page 115 ---
HA SBSidvHsa

SHVetL aeXs)

Additionally, a character's destiny may be to allow herself to be corrupted
by the dark side; her fall into darkness becomes the path to achieving this
destiny.

Destiny Bonus: For 24 hours, you and any allies within 10 squares of you
gain a +1 destiny bonus on skill checks and ability checks.

Destiny Penalty: You take a -2 penalty on all skill checks and ability
checks for 24 hours.

Destiny Fulfilled: Increase two ability scores of your choice by +1 each.
In addition, if your Dark Side Score (see page 94) is less than your Wisdom
score, your Dark Side Score increases until it's equal to your Wisdom score,
signifying that you've turned to the dark side (see The Dark Side, page 93).

Destruction
Your destiny is to destroy a person or object, for good or evil. A Rebel agent's
destiny might be to destroy a tyrannical Imperial Moff presiding over his
home planet, while a darksider may be destined to destroy a powerful Jedi
training site used to bolster the ranks of the Jedi order. The target of this
destiny should be something very difficult to reach, either because it's heav-
ily guarded or well hidden. Examples of this destiny include Darth Vader's
destruction of the Emperor, Lando Calrissian's destruction of the Death Star
Il, or A-wing pilot Arvel Crynyd's destruction of the Executor.

Destiny Bonus: For 24 hours, you and any allies within 10 squares of you
gain a +2 destiny bonus on all damage rolls.

Destiny Penalty: You take a -2 penalty on all damage rolls for 24
hours.

Destiny Fulfilled: Increase one ability score of your choice by +2.

Discovery
Your destiny is to discover a person, species, object, or location that was
either previously lost or unknown to the civilized galaxy. This could be as
simple as seeking out the remains of a long-dead hero, or as rare as finding a
vergence in the Force. A scout's destiny might be to find a thus-far-uncharted
world that helps solve a galactic crisis, while a scoundrel's destiny might
be to chart a new route through the Deep Core, allowing the Rebel Alliance
to sneak past the Empire's security web. The thing being discovered should
be something that can only be found as the result of a long-term search
or serendipitous events that only occur because the character long ago set
down the path that would lead to that discovery.

Examples of this destiny include Qui-Gon Jinn's discovery of Anakin Sky-
walker on Tatooine or Kyle Katarn's discovery of the Valley of the Jedi.

Destiny Bonus: For 24 hours, you and any allies within 10 squares of you
gain a +1 destiny bonus to all defenses (Reflex, Fortitude, and Will).

Destiny Penalty: You take a -1 penalty to your defenses (Reflex, Forti-
tude, and Will) for 24 hours.

Destiny Fulfilled: You gain a permanent +1 destiny bonus to your
defenses (Reflex, Fortitude, and Will).

Education

Your destiny is to train or educate another being or group of beings in
some way. In some cases, this could mean taking a young Padawan learner
and molding her into an eventual Jedi Master, or it could mean training
fresh-faced Rebel Alliance recruits and molding them into a crack team of
SpecForce operatives. Characters with this destiny are not merely teachers
providing mundane training. The education that this destiny demands must
be of great importance to the galaxy, and should lay the groundwork for the
beneficiaries of your tutelage to go on to fulfill destinies of their own. Only
when the training is complete can this destiny be fulfilled, and the process
should take many months or years to complete.

Examples of this destiny include Obi-Wan Kenobi's training of Anakin
Skywalker, Yoda's training of Luke Skywalker, or Grand Admiral Thrawn's
training of Captain Pellaeon.

Destiny Bonus: For 24 hours, you and any allies within 10 squares of you
gain a +1 destiny bonus on skill checks and ability checks.

Destiny Penalty: You take a -2 penalty on all skill checks and ability
checks for 24 hours.

Destiny Fulfilled: You gain a permanent +5 destiny bonus on checks
made with one class skill of your choice.

Redemption

Your destiny is to redeem a character that has been corrupted or otherwise
turned to evil. Many Jedi seek to turn their fallen brethren away from the
dark side. A Rebel agent might seek to turn his brother, an Imperial officer,
away from the evil Empire, redeeming him back to the side of justice and
freedom. The target of this destiny should be someone that has fallen from
the light in some way, whether that means turning to the dark side of the
Force or simply siding with evil over good. Turning someone away from
their wicked ways is usually very difficult and requires far more than simple
persuasion. Often a character that fulfills this destiny does not survive it,
and sometimes neither does their redeemed target. Additionally, you may
be your own target for this destiny, making your own redemption the means
of fulfilling it.

Examples of this destiny include Luke Skywalker turning Darth Vader
away from the dark side and Revan's redemption of Bastila Shan on the
Star Forge.

Destiny Bonus: You gain a Force Point.

Destiny Penalty: You lose one Force Point. If you have no Force Point to
lose, you take a -1 penalty on attack rolls until you gain a level.

Destiny Fulfilled: The Dark Side Score of the redeemed character is
reduced to 1, and he loses any remaining Force Points. You gain a number
of Force Points equal to 3 + the number of Force Points the redeemed
character lost.


--- Page 116 ---
Rescue

Your destiny requires you to save a person from death or an object from
destruction. Often characters with this destiny will not know which person
or object they're meant to save, let alone when or how to do so. They simply
must be in the right place at the right time. A hero might spend months
traveling with his allies before fulfilling his destiny by saving one of their
lives. Conversely, a Rebel agent might engage in years’ worth of espionage
on his home planet, only to find that his destiny is to save a local Imperial
magistrate who betrays the Empire after having her life saved.

Examples of this destiny include Han Solo saving Luke Skywalker's life
at the Battle of Yavin and Wicket the Ewok rescuing Leia from the scout
troopers on Endor.

Destiny Bonus: For 24 hours, you and any allies within 10 squares of you
gain a +2 destiny bonus on all damage rolls.

Destiny Penalty: You take a -2 penalty on all attack rolls for 24 hours.

Destiny Fulfilled: Increase two ability scores of your choice by +1
each.

DEATH AND DESTINY

Achieving one's destiny may yield great benefits, but the path of destiny can
be perilous. Many characters in the Star Warssaga perish attempting to fulfill
their destinies. If a Force-sensitive character dies while fulfilling (or attempt-
ing to fulfill) his destiny, the Gamemaster may allow the dead character to
manifest as a Force spirit. If a non-Force-user perishes while pursuing or
achieving his destiny, the GM may decide that the character's sacrifice or
untimely death imparts some benefit upon his surviving allies.

Force Spirit: A Force-user who dies in the process of fulfilling his destiny
may manifest as a Force spirit. For a Jedi or other good Force-user, this means
transforming into a translucent blue spirit that can appear before his former
allies. For a darksider, this means becoming an evil dark side spirit that can
linger on, continuing to spread the influence of the dark side.

If a character with the Force Sensitivity feat dies while fulfilling her
destiny, that character may become a Force spirit, retaining her conscious-
ness (and her Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores) but becoming
completely incorporeal. The Force spirit can manifest at will and can vanish
just as easily. It can also walk through walls and exist in the vacuum of space.
Additionally, Force spirits can travel anywhere in the galaxy instantly with a
mere thought. However, Force spirits have no substance and cannot interact
physically with creatures or objects in the universe.

When a hero dies and becomes a Force spirit, that Force spirit becomes
a GM-controlled character. Under the GM's control, a Force spirit might
serve as a guide, advising heroes in times of dire need and sharing valuable
information or wisdom it held in life.

Noble Sacrifice: Whenever a character willingly sacrifices himself for a
noble cause, particularly while fulfilling his destiny, he can bolster the resolve
of his surviving comrades and allies. For example, when Arvel Crynyd crashed

his A-wing into the bridge of the Executor, it was a turning point in the Battle
of Endor. When a character dies fulfilling his destiny in such a way, all allies
within the same star system gain a +1 destiny bonus on attack rolls and a +1
destiny bonus to defenses (Reflex, Fortitude, and Will) for 24 hours.

Vengeance: When a valued ally falls in the pursuit of his destiny, it can
have powerful effects on those present at the time of his death. When a
character dies fulfilling his destiny, any ally who witness his death may choose
to become filled with a desire to avenge her fallen comrade, gaining a +2
destiny bonus on attack rolls and damage rolls for 24 hours. Since revenge
leads to the dark side, any Force-user who chooses to gain these bonuses
must immediately increase his Dark Side Score by 1 (see page 93).

HA SSaLadgvHo

pls
W
g
0
J
y
2
Fi
@



--- Page 117 ---


--- Page 118 ---
axy of high-tech wonders, the only limits to what types of equipment
nercially available depend on the inventors, merchants, and corpora-
t manufacture and supply them. Most of the items described in this
available through legitimate arms and equipment traders.

EY

economy turns on the wealth and products of billions of worlds.
hout the history of known space, money has gone by many names,
asic unit always came back to the "credit." As the Republic waned
: Rise of the Empire approached (circa Episodes I-III), Republic credits

called “dataries") no longer had much value beyond the Core Worlds and
~ the Inner Rim. Instead, local currencies became popular. More often, people
“living and working in the distant regions wanted to trade in hard currency,
not electronic credit chips.

This changed when the Empire came to power. By the time of the Rebellion
era (circa Episodes IV-VI), Imperial credits were accepted everywhere. Even
the Alliance used this currency, as it was the standard throughout known
space until the Empire finally fell.

The New Republic, of course, minted its own credits after the victory
at Endor and the establishment of the new galactic government. However,
individual planets, regions, and sectors also adopted their own currencies,
and the Imperial remnants issued their own scrip. Exchange rates fluctuated
wildly throughout this period. The New Republic credit was established ten
years after the Battle of Endor and eventually emerged as the leading cur-
rency by the time of The New Jedi Order era.

CARRYING CREDITS

The most common methods for keeping track of your credits are the credit
chip or cred stick. These contains memory algorithms that can securely
monitor the amount of credits available to the owner and accurately add to
and subtract from that amount as transactions occur.

WEALTH BEYOND CREDITS

Some characters with access to a ship deal in commodities. Han Solo, for
example, smuggled goods from place to place before hooking up with the
Rebel Alliance. Other characters might be legitimate traders, buying and sell-
ing commodities to pay their way across the galaxy (and subsidize the adven-
tures in which they wind up participating). Guilds and governments regulate
trade. Charters and licenses are granted, cargo is regularly inspected, trade
routes are established, and port fees are posted. In general, small freighters
might come to the attention of local ports and the occasional inspection
vessel, but independent traders are otherwise given a lot of freedom when
they conduct their business.

MA SSiavHo



--- Page 119 ---
HA BSaltdavHS

Table 8-1: Trade Goods gives baseline prices for fairly broad categories of
goods. The Gamemaster can get more specific, add or remove items depend-
ing on supply and demand in the campaign, and adjust prices to reflect such
fluctuations in the market. Also, prices can vary greatly in different regions
of space, different star systems, and even between different planets within
the same star system.

COMMODITY COST
Animal, common 100
Animal, exotic 2,000
Animal, livestock { 500
Art, common 100
Art, quality 1,000
Art, precious 10,000
Bacta, 1 liter (1 kg) 100
Food, common (1 kg) 10
Food, quality (1 kg) 20
Food, exotic (1 kg) 50
Fuel, 1 liter (1 kg) 50
Gems, semiprecious (1 gram) 100
Gems, precious (1 gram) 1,000
Gems, exotic (1 gram) 10,000
Holovid i 10
Metal, common (1 metric ton) 2,500
Metal, semi-precious (1 kg) 200
Metal, precious (1 kg) 10,000
Ore, common (1 metric ton) 1,500
Spice, common (1 kg) 1,000
Spice, exotic (1 gram) 20
Textiles, common (1 meter) 5
Textiles, quality (1 meter) 20
Textiles, exotic (1 meter) 100
Water, 1 liter (1 kg) 1

SELLING ITEMS

Sometimes you'll come into possession of an item that you don't want. We're
not talking about commodities here. Commodities are valuable goods that
can easily be exchanged almost like cash. We're talking about individual
items from the lists presented later in this chapter. In general, a merchant
will buy used equipment at half its listed price. If you have a blaster and
want to upgrade to a heavy blaster pistol, you can sell the smaller blaster
for half price.

RESTRICTED ITEMS

Some objects require licenses to own or operate, or are restricted to qualify-
ing organizations or individuals. In such cases, a character must pay a license
fee to own the object legally. A license fee is a separate expense, purchased
in addition to the object to which it applies.

The four restriction ratings are as follows:

Licensed: The owner must obtain a license to own or operate the object
legally. Generally, the license is not expensive, and obtaining it has few if
any additional legal requirements.

Restricted: Only specifically qualified individuals or organizations are
technically allowed to own the object. However, the real obstacles to own-
ership are time and money; anyone with sufficient patience and cash can
eventually acquire the necessary license.

Military: The object is sold primarily to legitimate police and military
organizations. A military rating is essentially the same as restricted (see
above), except that manufacturers and dealers are generally under tight
government scrutiny and are therefore especially wary of selling to private
individuals.

Ilegal: The object is illegal in all but specific, highly regulated
circumstances.

GETTING A LICENSE
To get a license, you must pay the fee required to file the application. The
amount of the fee is a percentage of the object's normal cost, as listed in
Table 8-2: Restricted Objects. Once you've paid the fee, make a Knowledge
(bureaucracy) check against the DC listed in the Skill DC column. You can't take
10 or take 20 on this check. On a success, your license is approved and will be
available to you in a number of days as listed in the Time Required column. On
a failure, you spend a number of days as listed in the Time Required column,
but you are not granted the license and your application fee is lost. You may
try again as often as you like if you have the time and credits to do so.
Whether you succeed or fail on your Knowledge (bureaucracy) check, your
request is recorded in public records. The more restricted the license, the
more in-depth the background check required, and this leaves an increasingly
detailed electronic trail for others to follow.


--- Page 120 ---
LICENSE. BLACK MARKET SKILL = TIME

RESTRICTION

RATING FEE! COST pc REQUIRED
Restricted

10% x3 15

2 days

50% x5 25

10 days

Illegal

1 The license fee is given as a percentage of the licensed object's base cost.

You can choose to secure a license through illicit means. If you want to
bribe an official, make a Persuasion check instead of a Knowledge (bureau-
cracy) check. If you want to fabricate a false identity or steal another person's
identity, make a Deception check instead of a Knowledge (bureaucracy)
check. If either of these checks fails by 5 or more, the local authorities are
alerted to your activities.

THE BLACK MARKET

Almost anything is available on the black market. However, you must make
a Gather Information check to locate a black market merchant who has the
object you seek. The DC of the check is listed in the Skill DC column of Table
8-2: Restricted Objects, and the GM may apply a bonus or penalty to the
check depending on the circumstances. (For example, finding a black market
dealer on the smuggler's moon of Nar Shaddaa is relatively easy and may
warrant a +5 bonus on the check.) If you succeed on the Gather Information
check, you find a black market merchant who has access to the item you
seek. If you fail, you can try again later. If you fail by 5 or more, someone
notices you've been asking questions and comes to capture, interrogate, or
silence you.

Once you find someone who can get the item for you, you'll have to pay
two, three, four, or five times the item's normal price (as listed in the Black
Market Cost column of Table 8-2: Restricted Items) and wait some time for
the item to become available (as listed in the Time Required column).

WEAPONS

The galaxy is a dangerous place. Most people have access to some kind of
weapon, and those who travel the space lanes often carry a blaster or some
other weapon as a means of defense. A weapon's legality depends on where
you are. No one would look twice at a character wearing a blaster at his side
in Mos Espa or Nar Shaddaa. The same character would do well to conceal
it while visiting the gleaming metropolis of Coruscant.

WEAPON GROUPS

Discriminating combatants choose their weapons very carefully. However, a
character who knows how to load and fire a slugthrower pistol can handle
a blaster pistol just as expertly. Thus, weapons are categorized based on
their form and function, and a character who takes the appropriate Weapon
Proficiency feat (see page 89) is considered skilled with all of the weapons
in that group. Exotic weapons such as bowcasters and flamethrowers are
exceptions: An exotic weapon is unique in form and function, and requires
special training (that is, the Exotic Weapon Proficiency feat) to wield
proficiently.

Advanced Melee Weapons

The most common advanced melee weapons are bladed vibro weapons with
ultrasonic generators built into their hilts or handles. A vibro weapon's ultra-
sonic blade gives the weapon more cutting power with less effort. Advanced
melee weapons include the electrostaff, force pike, vibrodagger, vibroblade,
vibrobayonet, and vibro-ax.

Exotic Weapons

Unlike other weapon groups, you must select the Exotic Weapon Pro-
ficiency feat each time you want to learn how to use a different exotic
weapon. Exotic weapons include the amphistaff, atlatl, bowcaster, cesta,
and flamethrower.

Heavy Weapons

Large, powerful weapons that usually require a brace or tripod to oper-
ate fall under the category of heavy weapons, as do even larger weapons
mounted to vehicles and starships. Heavy weapons include the blaster
cannon, grenade launcher, heavy repeating blaster, missile launcher, and
E-Web repeating blaster.

Lightsabers

This group includes the standard lightsaber (a handgrip hilt that proj-
ects a single blade of energy) and all lightsaber variants, including the
double-bladed lightsaber (as wielded by Darth Maul in Episode |: The
Phantom Menace). Lightsabers ignore damage reduction unless noted
otherwise. However, a target's shield rating reduces a lightsaber's damage
normally.

Pistols

Pistols are ranged weapons that can be fired with one hand. Types of pistols
include the blaster pistol (the most common firearm in the Star Wars uni-
verse), the heavy blaster pistol, the hold-out blaster, the sporting blaster,
the ion pistol, and the slugthrower pistol.

A HSLdgvHo =



--- Page 121 ---
iA SeSilavHa

LNSEWAIAeS)

Rifles

Rifles deal more damage and have a greater range than pistols, but you take
a -5 penalty on attack rolls if you wield a rifle with one hand (regardless of
the weapon's size relative to you). Weapons in this group include the blaster
carbine, blaster rifle, heavy blaster rifle, sporting blaster rifle, light repeating
blaster, ion rifle, and slugthrower rifle.

Simple Weapons

Simple weapons include weapons that require no special training to use, such
as the club, combat gloves, knife, mace, quarterstaff, stun baton, grenades,
and thermal detonator. Also included are primitive weapons such as the
spear, net, sling, and bow.

WEAPON SIZES
The size of a weapon compared to your size determines whether the weapon
is light, one-handed, two-handed, or too large for you to use.

Light: If the weapon's size is smaller than your size (a Human using a Small
weapon, such as a blaster pistol), then the weapon is light. Light weapons
can be used while grappling, and light melee weapons can be used with the
Weapon Finesse feat (page 89).

One-Handed: If the weapon's size category is the same as your size (a
Human using a Medium weapon, such as a heavy blaster pistol), then the
weapon is one-handed.

Two-Handed: If the weapon's size category is one step larger than your
size (a Human using a Large weapon, such as a light repeating blaster), then
the weapon requires two hands to use (and sometimes a special mount such
as a tripod).

Too Large to Use: If the weapon's size category is two or more steps
larger than your size (an Ewok using a Large weapon, such as a blaster
cannon), the weapon is too large to use. The exceptions to this are vehicle-
or starship-mounted mounted weapons, which are housed in a unit that
aids in their use.

WEAPON QUALITIES

When you choose a weapon for your character, refer to Table 8-3:
Melee Weapons and Table 8-4: Ranged Weapons for details about the
various weapon types. The weapon qualities on these tables are explained
below:

Weapon Group: A weapon's group tells you which Weapon Proficiency
feat you need to be considered proficient with the weapon. If you don't
have the appropriate feat, you take a -5 penalty on attacks made with the
weapon.

Size: The weapon's size (see Weapon Sizes, above).

Cost: The weapon's cost in credits.

Damage: The damage the weapon deals with each hit. Melee weapons also
add the wielder's Strength bonus to damage, or twice the wielder's Strength
bonus when wielded in two hands.

Double weapons have two damage entries separated by a slash; these
represent the damage dealt by each end of the double weapon.

Stun Damage: If the weapon has a stun setting, its stun damage is listed
here (see Stunning, page 162, for more information). Ranged weapons set to
stun have a maximum range of 6 squares unless noted otherwise.

Rate of Fire: Ranged weapons have either a single-shot setting (S) or
an autofire setting (A). A few weapons have both settings and can be set to
either single-shot mode or autofire mode as a swift action. Only ranged weap-
ons that hold multiple shots of ammunition can have an autofire setting.

Weight: The weapon's weight in kilograms.

Damage Type: The type of damage a weapon deals. Some creatures and
objects take more or less damage from weapons that deal a certain type of
damage (see Damage Reduction, page 158). Some weapons deal more than
one type of damage, depending on how the weapon is used:

And: The weapon deals both types of damage simultaneously.

Or:The weapon deals one type of damage or the other, chosen immediately
before making the attack roll.

Double weapons sometimes deal a different damage type depending on
which end of the weapon is used; in this case, the two damage types are
separated by a slash.

(lon): See lon Damage, page 159, for special rules governing ion
weapons.

Availability: Some weapons have limited availability, as noted below.

Licensed, Restricted, Military, or Illegal: Ownership of the weapon is limited
to certain individuals (see Restricted Items, page 118).

Rare: A rare weapon is generally available only on its planet of origin (for
example, Naboo for the atlatl and cesta, or Kashyyyk for the bowcaster) or
by acquiring it directly from the manufacturer. When available on the open
market elsewhere, rare items usually cost double the listed price.

MELEE WEAPONS

Used in close combat, melee weapons usually deal bludgeoning, slashing,
or piercing damage, depending on the weapon's design. Some combine
powered components to augment the user's own strength. Many types of
melee weapons are widely available and have few governmental or legal
restrictions. Civilians, law enforcement agents, and military personnel alike
carry these items.

A character's Strength modifier is always applied to a melee weapon's
attack roll and damage roll.

MELEE WEAPON DESCRIPTIONS
The various types of melee weapons presented in Table 8-3: Melee Weapons
are described below.


--- Page 122 ---
Amphistaff

Exotic Weapon

Anamphistaff is a serpentine creature genetically engineered by the Yuuzhan
Vong to serve as a weapon. The amphistaff can become as rigid as stone or
as flexible as rope, and it can contract the muscles around its head and tail
to form razor-sharp edges.

The amphistaff has three distinct weapon forms: quarterstaff, spear, or
whip. Switching from one weapon form to another takes a swift action.

Quarterstaff Form: A rigid amphistaff has all the qualities of a quar-
terstaff (see below).

Spear Form: A rigid amphistaff can be wielded or thrown as a spear
(see below). The spear’s head is poisonous: If the target takes damage and
the attack roll equals or exceeds its Fortitude Defense, the target moves -1
persistent step on the condition track (see Conditions, page 148).

Whip Form: A flexible amphistaff has a reach of 2 squares (see Reach,
page 161). The whip's tail deals 1d4 points of piercing damage (plus the
wielder's Strength modifier) and is poisonous: If the target takes damage
and the attack roll equals or exceeds its Fortitude Defense, the target moves
-1 persistent step on the condition track. Instead of dealing damage with
the whip, the wielder may use it to pin or trip the target (see Grapple, page
153) as though he was using the Pin or Trip feat (see Chapter 5: Feats); the
wielder must be proficient with the amphistaff but doesn't need to have the
Pin or Trip feat to use this feature of the weapon.

In any of its weapon forms, an amphistaff may be coaxed by its wielder to
spit venom up to 10 squares away (a standard action). If this ranged attack
hits both the target's Reflex Defense and Fortitude Defense, the target moves
-1 persistent step on the condition track. An amphistaff can only spit venom
once every 24 standard hours.

Atlatl

Exotic Weapon

A Gungan weapon, the atlatl adds speed and power as an extension of a
throwing arm, allowing the user to hurl energy balls farther than with just an
unaided toss. If forced into close combat, the wielder can use the atlatl as a
clublike melee weapon. Although the atlatl is considered an exotic weapon,
Gungans are treated as proficient if they have the Weapon Proficiency
(simple weapons) feat.

Bayonet

Simple Weapon

When mounted on a rifle, a bayonet allows you to use the rifle as a melee
weapon much like a spear. When wielding a rifle with a mounted bayonet,
you threaten squares within your reach (even if you used the rifle to make a
ranged attack on your last turn), and you can use it to make attacks of oppor-
tunity. A bayonet requires two hands to use when mounted on a rifle.

A bayonet cannot be used on a rifle with a folded stock. A bayonet
detached from a rifle is treated as a knife; a mounted bayonet deals more
damage than the knife because of the added leverage and bulk.

Cesta

Exotic Weapon

Another Gungan weapon, the cesta is a flexible pole used to hurl small energy
balls. It can also be used as a stafflike melee weapon. Although the cesta is
considered an exotic weapon, Gungans are treated as proficient if they have
the Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons) feat.

Club/Baton

Simple Weapon

Powered by the wielder's brute strength, clubs break an opponent's bones,
or worse. They are the favored weapons of thugs. Batons (a variety of the
club) are used by police forces on relatively peaceful worlds in crowd-control
situations.

Combat Gloves
Simple Weapon
A pair of padded gloves provides extra hitting power thanks to their weight
and the materials used to construct them. Anyone who expects to get into
a fistfight or a brawl probably wants to wear combat gloves. They provide
a +1 bonus to damage on a successful unarmed attack.

Combat gloves are two sizes smaller than their wearer (for example, a
pair of combat gloves designed for a Human are Tiny). Because of how they
are worn, combat gloves can't be disarmed or dropped.

Electrostaff
Advanced Melee Weapon
An electrostaff is a double weapon: Each end has an electromagnetic pulse
generator that discharges upon impact, allowing it to deal blunt-force
wounds. If desired, either electromagnetic pulse can be set to stun its target
instead. The staff is made of a resilient phrik alloy that gives it DR 20; this
damage reduction applies even against lightsaber attacks.
Electrostaffs are not common except during the Clone Wars. The IG-100
Series MagnaGuard droid (see page 201) typically carries an electrostaff.
An electrostaff requires two energy cells to operate.

Force Pike

Advanced Melee Weapon

Force pikes are 1-meter-long poles topped with power tips. A two-setting power

dial located near the bottom of the pike allows the user to set the weapon to

“lethal” or “stun.” Although primarily a vibro weapon, the force pike also delivers

an electrical shock through its tip, dealing both piercing and energy damage.
A force pike requires two energy cells to operate.

A Sates

0)
a)
c
:
&
q



--- Page 123 ---
ADVANCED MELEE WEAPONS COST DAMAGE

STUN DAMAGE

Vibrodagger' . . 200 2d4 ~

WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY

1 kg Slashing or piercing -

Vibroblade 250 2d6 -

Vibrobayonet 350 2d6 -

~ Electrostaft 3,000 ©~—«ad6/2de

~ Force pike 500 2d8 2d8

2d6/2d6 .

1.8 kg Slashing or piercing Licensed

Licensed
Restricted

Piercing
Piercing and energy

1 kg
2 kg

2 kg Bludgeoning and energy

Restricted
a Nibroraxuiae 500 2d10 - 6 kg Slashing Restricted —
EXOTIC WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY
Atlatl? 50 2d4 - 1.5 kg Bludgeoning . Rare

Lightsaber! 3,000
Lightsaber, double 7,000
Knife

Simple Weapon

While many weapons rely on highly advanced technology, knives still see
wide use. A knife is completely silent and serves well in close-combat
skirmishes.

Lightsaber

Lightsaber

The lightsaber, simple in design yet difficult to wield and master, features a
handgrip hilt that projects a blade of pure energy. The traditional weapon
of the Jedi, the lightsaber stands as a symbol of their skill, dedication, and
authority.

Am histaff"® . - Special | - 2 kg See description Rare
ee oe ad : = 18kg —-Bludgeoning Rare ie
LIGHTSABERS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY

Lightsaber, short! 2,500 2d6 = 0.5 kg Energy and slashing . Rare

odg/2d8 i itt

1 kg Energy and slashing Rare

2 kg . Energy and slashing Rare

The blade of a lightsaber is generated by an energy cell and focused
through crystals within the hilt. The saber can cut through most materials
(except another lightsaber blade, an energy shield, or a few exotic materi-
als), given enough time. Because only the handgrip has any weight, unskilled
users have difficulty judging the position of the blade. The lightsaber's true
potential becomes apparent in the hands of a fully trained Jedi, who can
defend and attack with the weapon, deflecting shots or striking opponents
with the glowing blade.

A lightsaber requires a special energy cell to operate (the cost is ten times
the price of an ordinary energy cell, but it lasts almost indefinitely).


--- Page 124 ---
SIMPLE WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DAMAGE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY

~ Knife! 25 1d4 = 1 kg Slashing or piercing -
Club/batcn 15 1d6 - 0.5 kg Bludgeoning -
Stun baton 15 1d6 2d6 0.5 kg Bludgeoning -
Mace 50 1d8 - 2.5 kg Bludgeoning a
a Spear a 60 1d8 - 1.5 kg Piercing a
Bayonet 50 1d8 - 1 kg Piercing Licensed
Quarterstaff 65 1d6/1d6 - 1.8 kg Bludgeoning -
UNARMED

COST

DAMAGE

1 Can be thrown.
2 Can be used to hurl energy balls (see Table 8-4: Ranged Weapons).
3 Reach weapon.

Lightsaber, Double-Bladed

Lightsaber

The double-bladed lightsaber consists of two sabers fused at their hilts. These
weapons are rare and require even greater skill to wield than single-bladed
lightsabers. One or both blades can be ignited at once.

With both blades ignited, a double-bladed lightsaber is a double weapon.
You can attack with both ends of the weapon as a full-round action, but
both attack rolls take a -10 penalty (although certain feats and talents can
reduce these penalties).

A double-bladed lightsaber requires two special energy cells to operate
(the cost of each is ten times the price of an ordinary energy cell, but it lasts
almost indefinitely).

STUN DAMAGE

Combat gloves 150 +1 -

Combat gloves 250 +1 -

WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY

0.4 kg Bludgeoning -

0.5 kg Bludgeoning -

Lightsaber, Short
Lightsaber
Small Jedi characters such as Master Yoda favor the short lightsaber, some-
times called a shoto. Jedi skilled at two-weapon fighting often use the shoto
as their off-hand weapon of choice.

Ashort lightsaber requires a special energy cell to operate (the cost is ten
times the price of an ordinary energy cell, but it lasts almost indefinitely.)

Mace

Simple Weapon

The mace is a weapon made of metal, consisting of a heavy ball atop a
handle.



--- Page 125 ---
)

ANSWSAINES)

HA BSstovHS

Quarterstaff
Simple Weapon
A quarterstaff is made of wood, plasteel, or a metal alloy. A user can strike
with either end of the quarterstaff, taking full advantage of any openings
in an opponent's defenses.

A quarterstaff is a double weapon. You can attack with both ends of
the weapon as a full-round action, but both attack rolls take a -10 penalty;
certain feats and talents can reduce these penalties.

Spear

Simple Weapon

A common weapon used by hunters and warriors in primitive cultures, the
spear is a long wooden pole with a sharp end fashioned from stone or metal.
Members of more advanced cultures enjoy using spears for sport, though
these weapons are usually constructed out of a durable metal alloy. Spears
can be used as thrown weapons.

Stun Baton
Simple Weapon
A short club with a power pack in the handle, the stun baton can be acti-
vated to produce a stunning charge when it strikes a target (see Stunning,
page 162).

A stun baton requires an energy cell to operate.

Vibro-Ax
Advanced Melee Weapon
This powerful vibro weapon features an energy cell that causes the blade
to vibrate rapidly when activated. This gives the weapon far greater power
than a standard axe, with minimal effort from the wielder.

A vibro-ax requires two energy cells to operate.

Vibrobayonet

Advanced Melee Weapon

When mounted on a rifle, a vibrobayonet allows you to use a rifle as a potent
melee weapon. Even if you used the rifle to make a ranged attack on your last
turn, you still threaten squares within your reach as long as your rifle has a
mounted vibrobayonet, and you can use it to make attacks of opportunity.
A vibrobayonet requires two hands to use when mounted on a rifle.

A vibrobayonet cannot be used when mounted on a rifle with a folded
stock. A vibrobayonet detached from a rifle functions as a vibrodagger; a
mounted vibrobayonet deals more damage than the vibrodagger because of
the added leverage and bulk.

A vibrobayonet requires an energy cell to operate. (Its power does not
drain energy from the rifle's power pack.)

Vibroblade
Advanced Melee Weapon
The vibroblade is a close-combat weapon favored by soldiers and mercenaries
throughout the galaxy. It resembles a short sword with a high-tech look and
feel. Vibroblades are illegal in most urban areas.

A vibroblade requires an energy cell to operate.

Vibrodagger
Advanced Melee Weapon
Assassins and petty thugs favor the smallest of the vibro weapons, the
vibrodagger. A number of civilians carry it for defense. It alone among vibro
weapons is subject to very little regulation, since it is viewed as a common
tool for crafters and explorers.

A vibrodagger requires an energy cell to operate.

RANGED WEAPONS

At any given time, hundreds of manufacturers are creating and marketing
a wide array of ranged weapons. These weapons run the gamut from small,
concealable handheld weapons to tripod-mounted cannons that require a
small crew to operate.

WEAPON RANGES

All ranged weapons apply the wielder's Dexterity modifier to the attack
roll. Ranged attacks made at point blank range suffer no penalty. However,
ranged attacks made at short, medium, or long range take a penalty on the
attack roll, as shown in Table 8-5: Weapon Ranges.

Improvised Thrown Weapons: While some weapons are meant to be
thrown, it is physically possible to throw almost any weapon of your size
or less. You take a —5 penalty on an attack roll made with an improvised
thrown weapon. In addition, unless the weapon is light, the improvised thrown
weapon is treated as inaccurate (see above).

RANGED WEAPON
DESCRIPTIONS

The various types of ranged weapons presented in Table 8-4: Ranged Weap-
ons are described below.

Blaster Cannon
Heavy Weapon
Portable, shoulder-fired blaster cannons fire powerful bolts of energy. Often
used as an antivehicle weapon, the blaster cannon has the range and power
to inflict devastation on troops and structures alike.

A blaster cannon is an area effect weapon. It deals full damage to the
target if the attack hits its Reflex Defense (half damage if it has the Evasion
talent) and half damage if it misses (no damage if it has the Evasion talent).


--- Page 126 ---
*HHOKREY RELIGIONS AND ANCIENT
WEAPONS ARE NO MATCH FOR A GOOD
BLASTER AT YOUR SIDE, KID.”

Any creature or object adjacent to the target takes half damage if the attack
hits (none if it has the Evasion talent) and no damage if it misses.

A blaster cannon requires a power pack to operate. After 10 shots, the
power pack must be replaced.

Blaster Carbine
Blaster Rifle (see text)
This small blaster rifle has a short barrel and compact two-handed grip,
making it look more like a long pistol than a rifle. Some blaster carbines, such
as the E-5 used by B1 battle droids, have a retractable stock. A blaster carbine
without a retractable stock costs 850 credits (instead of 900 credits).
Because of its compact design, a blaster carbine can always be used to
make an attack of opportunity even if its stock is not folded.
A blaster carbine requires a power pack to operate. After 50 shots, the
power pack must be replaced.

Blaster, E-Web Repeating
Heavy Weapon
The E-Web repeating blaster can normally only be fired when mounted on
a tripod. When mounted on a tripod, it is treated as one size smaller for
purposes of being wielded (allowing a Medium character to operate it with
two hands).
The E-Web repeating blaster only operates in autofire mode (see Autofire,
page 156) and requires a power generator to operate (see page 139).
Normally, the E-Web repeating blaster requires a second crewman to
regulate the weapon's power generator; this second crewman must spend a
standard action while adjacent to the weapon to regulate its power. After
you regulate the E-Web repeating blaster's power, it will function normally
until the beginning of your next turn. If the weapon's power is not regulated
(that is, if a second crewman has not done so since the same initiative
count on the previous round), apply a -2 penalty on all attack rolls made
with the weapon.

Blaster, Heavy Repeating

Heavy Weapon

The heavy repeating blaster is a fearsome weapon typically operated from a
bunker emplacement or mounted on a combat vehicle. The heavy repeating

~ HAN SOLO

blaster operates only in autofire mode (see Autofire, page 156). If you use a
heavy repeating blaster without a tripod or other mount, you cannot brace
the weapon before making an autofire attack.

A heavy repeating blaster requires a power pack to operate. After 20
shots, the power pack must be replaced. This weapon can also be attached
to a power generator for longer use.

Blaster Pistol
Pistol
The word “blaster” is a blanket term for literally thousands of different designs
from hundreds of manufacturers, such as the popular BlasTech DL-18. Blasters
are popular with urban police forces, traders, and anyone who needs to pack
respectable firepower in an easily carried package.

A blaster pistol requires a power pack to operate. After 100 shots, the
power pack must be replaced.

RETRACTABLE STOCKS

Some weapons, such as the E-11 blaster rifle used by stormtroopers
and the E-5 blaster carbine used by battle droids, have a retractable
stock. Only rifles and pistols (and rifle- or pistol-like exotic weapons)
can have a retractable stock. Extending or folding a retractable stock
is a move action.

When the stock is folded, the following rules apply:

e Treat the weapon as a pistol for purposes of proficiency and
range.

© You cannot brace the weapon while using it in autofire mode (see
page 156), even if it is an autofire-only weapon.

When the stock is extended, the following rules apply:

¢ Treat the weapon as a rifle for purposes of proficiency and range.

e You take a -5 penalty on attack rolls with the weapon if you use it
in one hand (regardless of its size relative to you).

)

HiA SeSalavHad

Wy
:
W
2;
q



--- Page 127 ---
Blaster Pistol, Heavy
Pistol
Heavy blaster pistols were invented to provide the sort of firepower one
expects from a blaster rifle, but in a compact and easily carried sidearm.
The weapon produces additional "punch" by drawing heavily on its power
pack, reducing the number of shots the power pack can provide (compared
to a regular blaster pistol). Han Solo uses a heavy blaster pistol, the BlasTech
DL-44.

A heavy blaster pistol requires a power pack to operate. After 50 shots,
the power pack must be replaced.

Blaster Pistol, Hold-Out
Pistol
Small, palm-sized blasters see widespread use in weapon-restricted areas,
Hold-out blasters are commonly found in the possession of undercover
agents, gamblers, scoundrels, or nobles seeking to protect themselves. They
are sometimes carried as a backup weapon for more lethal characters.
Because of its compact design, a hold-out blaster pistol grants a +5
equipment bonus on Stealth checks made to conceal the weapon.
A hold-out blaster requires an energy cell to operate. After 6 shots, the
energy cell must be replaced. :

EXOTIC WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUN DMG

1,000 3d6 _

3d10 =
DAMAGE

Bowcaster

HEAVY WEAPONS COST

Grenade launcher Special Special

4,000 3d10 =

Blaster, heavy repeating
Blaster cannon! 3,000 3d12 a
Missile launcher’ 1,500 6d6 -

3d12 . -
DAMAGE STUN DMG

8,000
COST

Blaster, E-Web repeating?
PISTOLS

Blaster pistol, hold-out

RATE OF FIRE

S 7 kg Fire

s
STUN DMG

S 18 kg Energy Mig |
Military

S 10 kg

WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY

Military

Energy and piercing Licensed, Rare
TYPE AVAILABILITY

8 kg
WEIGHT

Military

Varies

12 kg Energy Military

Slashing

Energy Military

Blaster pistol 500 3d6 2d6
lon pistol

250 3d6 ion -
50 26

Blaster pistol, heavy 750 3d8 2d8

A. 38 kg

RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY
Illegal

5 1 kg Energy Restricted

Si 1kg Energy (ion) Licensed

S 1.4 kg Peeing

Ss 1.3 kg Energy Military


--- Page 128 ---
Blaster Pistol, Sporting
Pistol
This short, compact blaster is used for small-game hunting or personal
defense. Princess Leia Organa used a DDC Defender sporting blaster when
she first appeared in Episode IV: A New Hope.

A sporting blaster requires an energy cell to operate. After 6 shots, the
energy cell must be replaced. A sporting blaster can also be attached to a
power pack, but after 100 shots the power pack must be replaced.

Blaster Rifle
Rifle (see text)
The basic blaster rifle is standard issue to soldiers across the galaxy. Some
blaster rifles, such as the BlasTech E-11 (or its “clone,” the SoroSuub Storm-
trooper One), have a retractable stock. A blaster rifle without a retractable
stock costs 900 credits (instead of 1,000 credits).

A blaster rifle requires a power pack to operate. After 50 shots, the power
pack must be replaced.

RIFLES COST DAMAGE STUN DMG RATE OF FIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY
Blaster carbine 900 3d8 2d8 S,A 2.2 kg Energy Restricted
ee 2d8 SA 4.5 kg Energy Restricted
Blaster rifle, sporting 800 3d6 2d6 S 4kg Energy Licensed
lon rifle i a : - [One hes +. 3.1 kg Energy (ion)
Slugthrower rifle 4kg Piercing Restricted
_ Blaster, light repeating 1,200 3d8 6 kg Energy Military
eavy 2,000 3d10 —2d10 — - 6 kg Energy _ Mili
SIMPLE WEAPONS COST DAMAGE STUNDMG ~~ RATEOFFIRE WEIGHT TYPE AVAILABILITY

Energy ball?

BGenade, fag = ane ea
Grenade, ion' 250 4d6 ion -
Grenade, stun’  =§==——250 - 4d6
Thermal detonator’ 2,000 8d6 -

Sling

Net 25 - -
1 Area attack weapon (see Area Attacks, page 155).
2 An E-Web repeating blaster mounted on a tripod is treated as a Large weapon.

i) 0.25 kg Energy Licensed, Rare
s 0.5 kg Slashing t
s 0.5 kg Energy (ion) Restricted
S$ 1 kg Energy Illegal
0.3 kg Bludgeoning
1.4 kg Piercing
S 4.5 kg - -

v

3 For purposes of range, treat as a thrown weapon if thrown by hand, a simple weapon if hurled by an atlatl, or an accurate simple weapon if hurled by a cesta.



--- Page 129 ---
ANSEWAINES)

Blaster Rifle, Heavy
Rifle
The heavy blaster rifle is a larger, more powerful version of the blaster rifle
(see above) often used by clone troopers, stormtroopers, and other troops
during battles on open terrain. Because of its size, it is not well suited to
close-quarters fighting.

A heavy blaster rifle requires a power pack to operate. After 30 shots,
the power pack must be replaced.

Blaster Rifle, Light Repeating
Rifle
The light repeating blaster is the largest rifle-style weapon carried by military
personnel. It is an autofire-only weapon
(see Autofire, page 156).

A light repeating blaster requires a
power pack to operate. After 30 shots, é
the power pack must be replaced. This
weapon can also be attached to a power
generator for longer use.

Blaster Rifle, Sporting
Rifle

Sporting blaster rifles are popular with
the galactic elite as well as among "fring-
ers" living in isolated colonies. Sporting
blaster rifles are legal in most systems,
and special permits must be obtained to
carry them on many Core worlds. Luke
Skywalker kept a sporting blaster rifle in
his landspeeder on Tatooine.

Sporting blaster rifles often have a
targeting scope mounted on them (see
page 140), but the scope is not included
in cost listed on Table 8-4: Ranged
Weapons.

A sporting blaster rifle requires
a power pack to operate. After
50 shots, the power pack must be
replaced.

Bow

Simple Weapon

The bow is a typical hunter's weapon on
low-tech worlds, but it is also used for
sport on high-tech planets. A primitive
bow and its arrows are made of wood

and augmented with metal or stone, while more advanced versions tend to
be made from durable, lightweight composite materials.

The wielder's Strength modifier applies to damage dealt with a bow. A bow
only holds a single arrow at a time, but it can be reloaded as a free action.
A quiver of 10 arrows costs 20 credits and weighs 0.8 kg.

Bowcaster
Exotic Weapon
The bowcaster is crafted exclusively by the Wookiees of Kashyyyk. A fusion
of modern and ancient technologies, the weapon hurls an explosive energy
quarrel at incredible speed, much like an archaic rail gun. Although the bow-
caster is an exotic weapon, Wookiees are treated as proficient if they have the
Weapon Proficiency (rifles) feat.
A quiver of 10 quarrels costs
50 credits and weighs 1 kg.

Flamethrower

Exotic Weapon
The flamethrower is a ranged
weapon that shoots a cone of burning
chemicals 6 squares long and 6 squares
wide at the terminus. Make a single attack
roll and compare it to the Reflex Defense of
every target within this area. A successful
attack deals 3d6 points of fire damage to the
target; if the attack misses, the target takes
half damage instead. A target with the Eva-
sion talent (see page 50) takes half damage
from a successful attack and no damage if

the attack misses.

Reloading the flamethrower is a full-
round action. The weapon can be used five
times before its chemical supply is depleted.
Replacement chemical cartridges for the
flame-thrower cost 200 credits and weigh
4 kg each.

Grenade, Frag
Simple Weapon
The standard fragmentation gre-
nade unleashes metal shrapnel with
ee explosive force, slicing up anyone
within the 2-square burst radius. It
is designed to explode on contact after it
is thrown, dealing damage in the same turn
it is hurled.


--- Page 130 ---
SHORT

TYPE OF POINT BLANK

RANGED WEAPON (NO PENALTY) (-2 ATTACK)
Heavy weapons 0-50 squares 51-100 squares
Pistols 0-20 squares 21-40 squares
Rifles 0-30 squares 31-60 squares

Simple weapons’ 0-20 squares
Thrown weapons? 0-6 squares
2 Includes bows, slings, and energy balls hurled from atlatls and cestas.

3 Includes grenades and thrown melee weapons such as spears and lightsabers.

7-8 squares

When you make an area attack with a frag grenade, you make a single
attack roll and compare the result to the Reflex Defense of every target in the
grenade's burst radius. Creatures you hit take full damage, and creatures you
miss take half damage. A target with the Evasion talent (see page 50) takes
half damage from a successful attack and no damage if the attack misses.

Grenade, lon

Simple Weapon

When the object of a mission is to capture droids or vehicles, mercenary units,
military personnel, and local law enforcement agencies use ion grenades.
The standard ion grenade unleashes a brief electrostatic pulse that disables
droids, electronic devices, and vehicles within its 2-square burst radius. It is
designed to explode on contact after it is thrown, effectively dealing damage
in the same round it is hurled.

When you make an area attack with an ion grenade, you make a single
attack roll and compare the result to the Reflex Defense of every target in the
grenade's burst radius. Droids, vehicles, electronic devices, and cybernetically
enhanced creatures you hit take full damage, and those you miss take half
damage. In addition, the ion damage has a chance of pushing such targets
down the condition track (see lon Damage, page 159). Creatures without
cybernetics take half of the ion damage on a hit or no ion damage on a
miss, and they suffer no other ill effects. A target with the Evasion talent
(see page 50) takes half damage from a successful attack and no damage
if the attack misses.

Grenade, Stun

Simple Weapon

When the object of a mission is to detain or subdue rather than kill, mercenary
units, military personnel, and local law enforcement agencies use stun gre-
nades. The standard stun grenade unleashes concussive energy that knocks
out creatures within its 2-square burst radius. It is designed to explode on
contact after it is thrown, dealing damage in the same round it is hurled.

21-40 squares

Sam a yi MA
MEDIUM LONG

(-5 ATTACK) (-10 ATTACK)

101-250 squares 251-500 squares

41-60 squares 61-80 squares

61-150 squares 151-300 squares

41-60 squares 61-80 squares

9-10 squares 11-12 squares

When you make an area attack with a stun grenade, you make a single
attack roll and compare the result to the Reflex Defense of every target
in the grenade's burst radius. Creatures you hit take full stun damage, and
creatures you miss take half stun damage. In addition, the stun damage
has a chance of pushing targeted creatures down the condition track (see
Stunning, page 162). A target with the Evasion talent (see page 50) takes
half stun damage from a successful attack and no stun damage if the attack
misses its Reflex Defense.

Droids, vehicles, and objects are immune to stun damage.

Grenade Launcher
Heavy Weapon
Grenade launchers are military weapons that greatly improve the range of
grenades. Grenades fired by grenade launchers always explode on impact,
regardless of timers or other considerations. The type of grenade used deter-
mines the damage, type, and burst radius. Grenade launchers cannot be used
to hurl thermal detonators because these devices are simply too big and heavy
(although some larger grenade mortars can hurl thermal detonators as well).
A grenade launcher holds four grenades and has to be reloaded as a full-
round action. A grenade launcher can be mounted on a rifle (this takes 1 minute
and requires a DC 15 Mechanics check) or used as a separate weapon.

lon Pistol
Pistol
An ion pistol fires a stream of energy that wreaks havoc on electrical sys-
tems, making it effective against droids, vehicles, electronic devices, and
cybernetically enhanced creatures. It deals full damage against such targets
and has a chance of pushing its target down the condition track (see lon
Damage, page 159). Creatures without cybernetics take half damage from
a successful attack and suffer no other ill effects.

An ion pistol requires a power pack to operate. After 30 shots, the power
pack must be replaced.

A BeSidvHSo 3



--- Page 131 ---
1A HeSLlavHa

J

LNAWAIANGS)

lon Rifle

Rifle

An ion rifle is simply a larger version of the ion pistol (see above). An ion
rifle requires a power pack to operate. After 20 shots, the power pack must
be replaced.

Missile Launcher

Heavy Weapon

A missile launcher fires a high-speed projectile with an explosive warhead.
The standard missile unleashes metal shrapnel with explosive force, shred-
ding targets within a 2-square radius.

A missile launcher is an area effect weapon. Make a single attack roll
and compare it to the Reflex Defense of every target within the blast radius.
A successful attack deals full damage to the target; if the attack misses,
the target takes half damage instead. A target with the Evasion talent (see
page 50) takes half damage from a successful attack and no damage if the
attack misses.

A missile launcher holds four missiles and can be reloaded as a full-round
action. Replacement missiles are bought in pre-loaded magazines that hold
four missiles. Magazines cost 200 credits and weigh 5 kg.

Net

Simple Weapon

Nets are used for hunting and fishing in primitive cultures and for nonlethal
crowd control in more advanced ones.

A net allows you to initiate a grab (see page 152) or grapple (see page
153) against a character at range. A character that is grabbed or grappled
can attempt to escape the net (requiring a DC 15 Acrobatics check) or break
out of it (requiring a DC 20 Strength check). You can use the Pin and Trip
feats with a net, but you cannot use the Crush or Throw feats.

Sling

Simple Weapon

A primitive weapon, the sling hurls metal bullets or stones. The wielder's
Strength modifier applies to damage dealt with a sling.

Slugthrower Pistol
Pistol
A slugthrower pistol fires metal bullets—called “slugs"—instead of energy
bolts.

Slugthrowers are mostly found on backwater fringe worlds where blasters
aren't readily available. They don't need power packs; instead, they employ
clips that hold 10 slugs apiece. Clips cost 20 credits and weigh 0.1 kg.

Slugthrower Rifle

Rifle

A slugthrower rifle is the larger cousin of the slugthrower pistol. It doesn't
need a power pack; instead, it takes clips, and each clip holds 20 slugs. Clips
cost 40 credits and weigh 0.2 kg.

Thermal Detonator

Simple Weapon

The thermal detonator is a fist-sized sphere containing baradium, a powerful
explosive. Outlawed throughout known space except for highly regulated
demolitions professionals, the thermal detonator produces a fusion reaction
that generates a rapidly expanding field of searing heat and blast energy.
Disguised as a bounty hunter, Princess Leia threatened Jabba with a thermal
detonator at the beginning of Episode VI: Return of the Jedi.

A thermal detonator's timer can be set for 6 seconds (1 round) to as high
as an 18-second delay (3 rounds), counting down until it explodes or is reset
to its safe position.

When you make an area attack with a thermal detonator, you make a
single attack roll and compare the result to the Reflex Defense of every target
in the grenade's 4-square burst radius. Creatures hit take full damage, and
creatures missed take half damage. A target with the Evasion talent (see
page 50) takes half damage from a successful attack and no damage if the
attack misses its Reflex Defense.

EXPLOSIVES

Sometimes a mission calls for the use of more powerful explosives than
either grenades or thermal detonators. Set explosives aren't ranged weapons
and can't be used like grenades. Placing an explosive requires a Mechanics
check (see page 68).

When set and activated, the charge's timer begins counting down. Stan-
dard timers can be set with as much as an hour delay. Longer delays require
specialized timers.

With a successful Mechanics check, explosives ignore the damage
reduction of objects to which they're attached. Particularly good Mechan-
ies check results can increase the damage even more (see the Handle
Explosives use of the Mechanics skill, page 68). Multiple explosives rigged
to explode at the same time deal extra damage: Every time you double the
number of explosives used, you add +2 dice of damage. For example, two
blocks of detonite deal 7d6 points of damage, while four blocks deal 9d6
points of damage.


--- Page 132 ---
DAMAGE

WEAPON COST DAMAGE TYPE
Explosive charge 1,500 10d6* Energy
Detonite 500 5d6* Energy
Timer 250 - -

* The explosion damages everything in a 1-square burst radius.

EXPLOSIVE CHARGE

Explosive charges are highly restricted, usually only available to military or
law enforcement specialists or specialized construction units. Han Solo and
his strike team used explosive charges to take out the shield generator on
Endor in Episode VI: Return of the Jedi.

An explosive charge delivers a lot of destructive energy to a specific
point, making it perfect for demolishing structures or clearing rubble. It
causes negligible damage beyond its 1-square burst radius. Of course, col-
lateral damage and subsequent explosions usually accompany the use of an
explosive charge.

DETONITE

Detonite is a contact explosive that comes in tiny claylike blocks. It can be
shaped or molded around a target and crammed into small cracks. Detonite
is very stable in its normal forms and requires a timer to be set off.

ARMOR

Protective armor exists in the Star Wars universe, but only the lightest types
see widespread use. Heavier armor is considered to be too expensive, too
restrictive, and just not worth the trouble unless it serves an additional func-
tion (such as providing environmental protection, as in the case of Imperial
snowtrooper armor). See Table 8-7: Armor for the list of armor types.

Many forms of armor are restricted or even illegal outside of approved
military uses. In locations where armor isn't prohibited, the wearer of armor
identifies himself as someone who either expects to cause trouble or expects
trouble to come his way.

ARMOR QUALITIES

If you choose armor for your character, refer to Table 8-7: Armor (page 132)
for details about the various armor types. The armor qualities on the table
are explained below:

WEIGHT SIZE AVAILABILITY
0.5 kg Diminutive Restricted

0.1 kg Fine Restricted

0.1 kg Fine Licensed

Cost: The cost of the armor. Armor sized for Small characters costs half
as much, while armor for Large characters costs double the listed price. Some
armor has limited availability:

Armor Bonus to Reflex Defense: When you are wearing the armor, you
add this value as an armor bonus to your Reflex Defense (instead of adding
your heroic level to your Reflex Defense).

Equipment Bonus to Fortitude Defense: When you are wearing the
armor, you add this value as an equipment bonus to your Fortitude Defense.
Some types of armor do not provide an equipment bonus to your Fortitude
Defense.

Maximum Dex Bonus: This is the maximum bonus you can apply to your
Reflex Defense from Dexterity when wearing this type of armor. Heavier
armor limits your mobility, reducing your ability to avoid attacks. For example,
an armored flight suit has a maximum Dexterity bonus of +3. A character
with a Dexterity of 18 normally gains a +4 bonus to his Reflex Defense from
Dexterity, but if he's wearing an armored flight suit, he only applies a +3
bonus to his Reflex Defense.

Speed: Medium and heavy armor reduces your speed to three-quarters
normal (rounded down). Table 8-7 shows this reduction if you have a speed
of 6 squares or 4 squares. In addition, when wearing heavy armor, you can
only move up to three times your speed when running (instead of four times
your speed).

Weight: The weight of the armor. Armor fitted for Small characters weighs
half as much. Armor fitted for Large characters weighs twice as much.

Availability: Some armor has limited availability, as indicated below.

Rare: This armor is generally only available by going to its planet of
origin or by acquiring it directly from its wearer (for example, getting
vonduun crabshell armor from a Yuuzhan Vong warrior). When available on
the open market elsewhere, these items usually cost double the listed price,
sometimes much more.

Licensed, Restricted, Military, or Illegal: Ownership of the armor is
limited to certain people, as described in Restricted Items (see page 118).

Wy
¢
z |
W
z
q



--- Page 133 ---
nl ee

ARMOR BONUS — EQUIP BONUS MAX DEX SPEED SPEED
ARMOR (CHECK PENALTY) COST TO REF DEFENSE TO FORT DEFENSE BONUS (6SQ.)  (4SQ.) WEIGHT AVAILABILITY

Blast helmet and vest 500 +2 - +5
Combat jumpsuit 1,500 +4 - +4
Flight suit, armored 4,000 ai +2 +3
Vonduun crabshell - +5 +5 44

Stormtrooper armor 8,000 +6 MD +3

Ceremonial armor 5,000 +7 +2 4 sq. 3 sq. 13 kg Restricted
Corellian powersuit 10,000 +7 +3 7450, | 3sq) 20ko. | Restricted. |
Military

Armored spacesuit
Battle armor, heavy

Battle armor 7,000 +8 +2
12,000 +9 +3
15,000 +10 +4

+2 4 sq. 3 sq. 16 kg

Restricted
Military

+1 4 sq. 3 sq.’ 35 kg
+1 As 8 SO BOG,

1 When running in heavy armor, you can only move up to three times your speed (instead of four times).

ARMOR CHECK PENALTY

While wearing armor with which you are not proficient, you take an armor
check penalty on attack rolls as well as skill checks made using the following
skills: Acrobatics, Climb, Endurance, Initiative, Jump, Stealth, and Swim. The
type of armor worn determines the size of the penalty: light, -2; medium,
-5; heavy, -10. Additionally, you do not gain the armor's equipment bonuses.
For example, a character not proficient with light armor who dons a suit
of stormtrooper armor takes a -2 penalty on attack rolls and certain skill
checks (see above). In addition, he does not gain the armor's equipment
bonus on Perception checks and cannot apply the armor's equipment bonus
to his Fortitude Defense.

ARMOR DESCRIPTIONS
The types of armor given on Table 8-7: Armor are described below.

Armored Spacesuit

Heavy Armor

This bulky coverall contains a sealed life support system that provides
everything the wearer needs to survive for 24 hours in the vacuum of space
or any other hostile environment.

Battle Armor

Medium Armor

Battle armor combines protective metal or composite plates with a padded
jumpsuit to form a layer of protection. While off-the-rack battle armor is
available, most users cobble together their gear from various sources.

Battle Armor, Heavy

Heavy Armor

Similar to regular battle armor, heavy battle armor features more plating than
padding, including various pieces molded to fit the user, such as breastplates
and armor covering the arms and legs.

Blast Helmet and Vest

Light Armor

This armor consists of a lightweight helmet and a composite vest that, when
worn together, offer limited protection against incoming attacks.

Ceremonial Armor

Medium Armor

Ceremonial armor blends practicality with ornate design. Republic Guards and
Imperial Royal Guards wear different styles of ceremonial armor. A typical


--- Page 134 ---
suit of ceremonial armor consists of a helmet, durable breast guard, shoulder
guards, and articulated greaves for the arms and legs.

Combat Jumpsuit

Light Armor

This heavily padded jumpsuit is designed to provide limited protection
against physical and energy trauma without overly restricting the wearer's
movement.

Corellian Powersuit
Medium Armor
This suit of body armor contains an energized exoskeleton and a series of
servomotors that boosts the wearer's physical strength. Used by professional
soldiers, mercenaries, and bounty hunters, the powersuit requires skill and
training to use effectively.

The Corellian powersuit grants its wearer a +2 equipment bonus to
Strength, but only if the wearer has the Armor Proficiency (medium) feat.

Flight Suit, Armored

Light Armor

A combat-ready flight suit that provides additional protection against
vacuum for limited periods, this armor comes in various models, including the
Corellian TX-3 (favored by various pirate gangs) and the Imperial TIE flight
suit (worn by TIE fighter pilots throughout the Empire). An armored flight
suit provides up to 10 hours of life support, allowing its wearer to survive in
the vacuum of space or any other hostile environment.

Flight Suit, Padded

Light Armor

Favored by starfighter pilots all over the galaxy, the one-piece padded flight
suit protects against decompression, g-forces, and harmful environments.
It provides limited protection against attacks as well. A padded flight suit
comes with a matching helmet and gloves that seal around the wearer and
provide up to 10 hours of life support, allowing him to survive in the vacuum
of space or any other hostile environment.

Stormtrooper Armor
Light Armor
Worn by the elite soldiers of the Galactic Empire, stormtrooper armor comes
ina variety of models based around a standard white-and-black shell. Filled
with electronics that assist and augment the stormtrooper in his duties, it
includes rudimentary environmental protection, three-phase sonic filtering,
and visual amplification.

Variants of this armor also exist, including snowtrooper armor, sandtrooper
armor, and clone trooper armor. Each has slightly different details, but all
include the basic characteristics common to all stormtrooper armor. Though

TO WEAR ARMOR OR NOT
A character's Reflex Defense can be improved with armor; however,
a character who wears armor chooses to apply the armor's bonus to
Reflex Defense instead of his heroic level. He also chooses to take a
penalty on certain skill checks (see Armor Check Penalty, page 132).
As a character gains levels, armor becomes less enticing. For
example, a 5th-level heroic character has little reason to wear armor
that grants an armor bonus of +5 or less, unless the armor confers
some other useful benefit or the character has the Armored Defense or
Improved Armored Defense talents (see page 52). Still, some characters
enjoy the benefit of having a higher Fortitude Defense and damage
threshold; against very dangerous opponents, armor can literally be
the difference between life and death.

unavailable on the open market, these suits can occasionally be found on
the black market (or sometimes much higher).

Stormtrooper armor (including all variants) grants a wearer who has the
Armor Proficiency (light) feat a +2 equipment bonus on Perception checks
as well as low-light vision. Stormtrooper armor also includes an integrated
comlink in the helmet, allowing hands-free communication.

Wearing snowtrooper armor (18,000 credits) makes you immune to the
effects of extreme cold (see Extreme Temperatures, page 254).

Wearing sandtrooper armor (18,000 credits) makes you immune to the
effects of extreme heat (see Extreme Temperatures, page 254).

Vonduun Crabshell Armor

Light Armor

Yuuzhan Vong warriors wear this bioengineered "living armor" into battle.
The armor clings to its wearer's body like a parasite until its wearer dies or
decides to remove it. It is not found anywhere except in the hands of the
Yuuzhan Vong (see page 285).

EQUIPMENT

Asample of common equipment available during the time periods covered in
this book is given on Table 8-8: Equipment. Refer to the descriptions below
for other pertinent information.

COMMUNICATIONS DEVICES
Communications devices in the Star Wars Roleplaying Game are assumed
to use the same basic set of frequencies. The primary differences between
them lie in range, size, and what kind of data (audio, visual, or holo) they
can carry. If two or more communication devices are within range of one
another and share a data type, they can communicate.

3

A BSaLdVvHoS =



--- Page 135 ---
1A HeSsidvHd

ANIWANNES)

Comlink
A personal communications transceiver, the comlink consists of a receiver,
a transmitter, and a power source. Comlinks come in a variety of shapes
and styles.

Short-range comlinks have a range of 50 kilometers or low orbit, and
they can be built into helmets and armor; for example, stormtrooper armor
includes a helmet equipped with a short-range comlink.

A long-range comlink has a range of 200 kilometers or high orbit, and it
requires with a backpack-sized comset. For double the cost, a long-range
comlink can be miniaturized to a wrist-sized unit.

Encryption: A comlink can have hardwired encryption routines (adding
+10 to the DC of all Use Computer checks made to intercept your transmis-
sion) for ten times the base cost.

Video Capability: A comlink can have video capability (two-dimensional
images in addition to audio) for twice the base cost.

Holo Capability: A comlink can have holo capability (three-dimensional
images in addition to audio) for five times the base cost.

Pocket Scrambler

This is a simple add-on device that can be attached to any normal com-
munications device, such as a comlink and more advanced transceiver. The
pocket scrambler automatically encodes any outgoing message so that it
can be read only by a communications device equipped with a linked pocket
scrambler. Anyone who intercepts the scrambled message must make a DC
30 Use Computer check to decrypt it.

Vox-Box
A vox-box is a simple audio playback unit with 12 preprogrammed phrases
in Basic ("Yes." "No." "Maybe." "Greetings." “Go away.” “How much?" “Please
take me to someone with authority.” “I understand." “| need assistance.” "|
can help you." "| mean no harm." "| am hungry."), each with its own button.
These devices are useful to races that understand Basic but can't speak it
(such as Gamorreans and Wookiees). Devices that speak these phrases in
other languages also exist.

Altering one or more of a vox-box's preprogrammed phrases requires a
DC 10 Use Computer check.

COMPUTERS AND STORAGE
DEVICES

A computer includes any electronic device that stores and processes data. Its
Intelligence score represents its processing capability and is relevant when
making Use Computer checks (see page 75).

e lf a computer's attitude toward you is friendly or helpful, it grants an
equipment bonus equal to its Intelligence bonus (if any) on any Use
Computer check you make using that computer.

¢ A computer's Will Defense is equal to 15 + its Intelligence modifier.
When attempting to improve your access to a computer (see page 76),
your Use Computer check result must equal or exceed the computer's
Will Defense.

Storage Devices: Some computers are very simple and used only for
recording, storing, or viewing data. Some storage devices include a basic
operating system and display that allows for the manual viewing, entry, and
editing of data, but these are more expensive.

Code Cylinder

A compact encoded security device issued to many military, political, or
corporate officials, a code cylinder accesses computer data via a droid's
scomp link or provides entry into restricted facilities. Each cylinder features
the user's personal security clearance data. High-ranking personnel may carry
more than one cylinder, each with different access codes encrypted within
them. Republic citizens, Imperial officers, and New Republic personnel use
them to facilitate security measures.

Code cylinders are storage devices with Intelligence 10 and Will Defense
15. Improving your access to a code cylinder is difficult because the cylinder
has a starting attitude of hostile (see page 75). If your Use Computer check
fails by 5 or more, the code cylinder's self-destruct programming activates
and ruins the cylinder.

Credit Chip

The credit chip is a small, flat card that features a security codeout and
credit algorithm memory stripes. The chip can hold a specified number of
credits appropriate to the government that issued it, or it can draw froma
specific account held by the user. Credit chips not only allow quick and easy
transfers of funds but also protect users from theft.

Credit chips are storage devices with Intelligence 10 and Will Defense
15. Improving your access to a credit chip is very difficult because the chip
has a starting attitude of hostile (see page 75). Once it is friendly, you can
draw from the account to which it is linked. If you fail by 5 or more on your
Use Computer check to improve access, the credit chip's security program
detects the intrusion attempt and self-destructs.

Modifying a credit chip so that government and bank computers think
that it draws on a different account or that it has a different value stored
is almost impossible: The central bank's computers have Will Defense 30
and a starting attitude of hostile (see page 75); even worse, you won't
know if your check succeeded until after you attempt to use the modified
credit chip. If you fail, the government or bank computer orders the chip's
self-destruct programming to activate, ruining the chip. If you fail by 5 or
more, the chip's self-destruct programming activates and the government
or bank computer has traced your location, dispatching security personnel
to apprehend you.


--- Page 136 ---
Comlink, short-range 26 0.1 kg All-temperature cloak 100 1.5 kg
Comlink, long-range 250 1kg Chain (3 meters) 25 2 oky
Pocket scrambler 400 0.5 kg Field kit 1,000 10 kg
Vox-box : 200 0.1 kg Jet pack 300 30 kg
COMPUTERS AND STORAGE DEVICES = COST ~=— WEIGHT _— Liquid cable dispenser (15 meters) 10 0.2 kg
Code cylinder 500 0.1 kg Ration pack 5 0.1 kg
Credit chip 100 0.1 kg Syntherope (45 meters) 20 2.5 kg
Datacard, bank (10) i cig TOO 127 RENN RRR?
Datapad 1,000 0.5 kg Binder cuffs 50 0.5 kg
Datapad, basic 100 0.3 kg Energy cell 10. aaa
Holoprojector, personal 1,000 0.5 kg Fire extinguisher 50 3 kg a
Portable computer 5,000 2 kg Mesh tape 5 0.5 kg { p
DETECTION AND SURVEILLANCE DEVICES COST WEIGHT. Poner generator 750 15g ;
Electrobinoculars 1,000 1 kg Power pack 25 0.1 kg i Fy
Glow rod 10 1kg Power recharger 100 1 kg Ai:
Fusion lantern 25 2 kg Security kit 750 1 kg
Recording unit =~ Tool kit 250 1 kg
Audiorecorder 25 0.1 kg Utility belt 500 4kg
Holorecorder 100 i kg WEAPON AND ARMOR ACCESSORIES COST._—=—=WWEIGHT
Videorecorder 50 0.1 kg Bandolier 100 2kg
Sensor pack 1,500 9 kg Helmet package 4,000 1 kg
Aquata breather 350 0.2 kg Concealed 50 0.2 kg
Breath mask 200 2 kg Hip 25 0.5 kg
Atmosphere canister/filter 25 1kg Targeting scope |
Flight suit 1,000 3 kg Standard 100 0.2 kg
Space suit 2,000 15 kg Enhanced low-light 100014 1.2 kg
MEDRALGEAR Ee OST SC WEIGHT:
Bacta tank (empty) 100,000 500 kg 1 It takes 300 liters of bacta to fill a bacta tank.
Baca iter] 100 2 kg 2 The cost of a cybernetic prosthesis does not include the surgical cost to install
Cybernetic prosthesis 1,500? Varies it (500 credits).
Medical kit 600 20 kg
Medpac 100 1 kg

Surgery kit 1,000 10 kg


--- Page 137 ---
NA Seat avHoa

ANEWAINGES)

Data Card

A data card is a simple storage device with Intelligence 2. Intended solely
as external storage for a computer, it has no interface for direct display,
editing, or entry of data.

Datapad
These handheld personal computers serve as notebooks, day planners,
calculators, and sketchpads. In addition to performing basic computer
functions, datapads can interface with larger computer networks directly
or via comlink.

A datapad is a computer with Intelligence 12. Simpler datapads also exist
(Intelligence 10, 100 credits), but they are actually just storage devices with
display, input, and editing capability; they have no ability to run programs.

Holoprojector, Personal

A handheld, personal hologram transmitter can be used to view real-time
or recorded three-dimensional images or to pass the information through
a comlink connection. This storage device has Intelligence 2 and enough
memory to store about 1 hour of a holo recording or 1,000 holo images.

Portable Computer
Compact and light enough to be carried in an attaché case or backpack but
powerful enough to run fairly complex programs, portable computers are
the information technology of choice for anyone who needs access to a lot
of data while on the go. As such, they are particularly popular with traveling
business executives, military commanders in the field, and slicers.

A portable computer has Intelligence 14.

DETECTION AND

SURVEILLANCE DEVICES

Some detection devices augment a character's natural ability to perceive its
environment (for example, macrobinoculars), providing a bonus or reducing
penalties on Perception checks. Others use sensors to scan their surroundings
beyond the normal visual and audible range.

Electrobinoculars
This device magnifies distant objects in most lighting conditions. An internal
display provides data on range, relative and true azimuths, and elevation.
Viewing options include zoom and wide-vision observation. Electrobinoculars
also feature radiation sensors and a nightvision mode that grants darkvision
(see Darkvision, page 257) out to the user's normal range of sight.
Electrobinoculars reduce the range penalty on Perception checks to
-1 for every 10 squares of distance (instead of -5 for every 10 squares of
distance).

Glow Rod
A glow rod is a portable illumination device that projects a beam of light
up to 6 squares.

Fusion Lantern

A hand-held light source larger than a glow rod, the fusion lantern produces
light and heat. The light spreads out from the lantern, producing illumination
in a 6-square radius.

Recording Unit
This storage device is an audio, video, or holo recorder with a playback fea-
ture. It has Intelligence 1 and 1 memory unit. You can modify a recording
(edit, erase, or rearrange the order of events) with a DC 15 Use Computer
check. However, anyone can make an opposed Perception check (if observing
the recording) or opposed Use Computer check (if inspecting the data from
the recording) to detect any modifications you have made. Editing or modify-
ing a recording without first uploading it toa computer can be difficult: Add
the recording unit's Intelligence modifier (-5) to any Use Computer checks
you make to change the recording.

Audio Recorder: An audio recorder stores 100 hours of high-quality
sound.

Video Recorder: A video recorder stores 10 hours of high-quality video.

Holo Recorder: A holo recorder stores 1 hour of high-quality holos.

Sensor Pack

A portable scanning device, the sensor pack is a bulky rectangle featuring a
variety of dials and switches, a readout display, and a scanning dish. It provides
general details on comm signals, life forms, and hazards within 1 kilometer.
Operating a sensor pack requires a standard action and grants a +5 circum-
stance bonus on your Perception checks until the end of your next turn.

LIFE SUPPORT

The Star Wars Roleplaying Game includes many hostile environments, ranging
from deep oceans to poisonous atmospheres to the vacuum of space. These
devices enable creatures to function in such environments.

Aquata Breather

While underwater, an Aquata Breather can provide up to 2 hours of breathable
air through its mouthpiece. Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi used Aquata
Breathers while swimming to Otoh Gunga in Episode |: The Phantom Menace,
and Obi-Wan Kenobi used his again when evading clone troopers on Utapau
in Episode Ill: Revenge of the Sith.

Breath Mask
This personal atmosphere-filtering system consists of a mask that fits over
the nose and mouth and a hose connecting the mask to a portable life-


--- Page 138 ---
support system. A breath mask provides 1 hour of breathable atmosphere
defore the filter and atmosphere canister must be replaced. A functional
dreath mask grants immunity to inhaled poisons, including poisonous atmo-
spheres. A breath mask offers no protection from extreme temperatures or
yard vacuum.

A breath mask system can be built into a suit of armor; Darth Vader's
armor contains such a system.

Replacing the filter and atmosphere canister requires a DC 10 Mechan-
es check.

Flight Suit
The flight suit is a one-piece coverall (plus a helmet) that provides life
support, protects the wearer from hostile environments, and prevents the
wearer from succumbing to the adverse effects of high-velocity flying. A
flight suit includes a matching helmet and gloves that seal around the wearer
and provide up to 10 hours of life support.

As long as you have life support remaining, you are immune to any hostile
atmosphere or inhaled poison hazard. The suit also grants a +1 equipment
bonus to your Fortitude Defense.

Space Suit
This bulky coverall contains a sealed life support system that provides
everything the wearer needs to survive for 24 hours in the vacuum of space
or any other hostile environment.

As long as you have life support remaining, you are immune to any
atmosphere or inhaled poison hazard. The suit also grants a +2 equipment
bonus to your Fortitude Defense.

MEDICAL GEAR

Medical equipment by itself does not restore lost hit points—it can only help
when used with the Treat Injury skill (see page 74). Several common types
of medical equipment are described below.

Bacta Tank
This large, specialized tank is filled with the powerful healing agent, bacta,
which promotes rapid healing.

A bacta tank can be used in conjunction with surgery (see Treat Injury
skill, page 74). If the Treat Injury check is successful, the patient heals a
number of hit points equal to its character level in addition to that provided
by Surgery.

A bacta tank can also be used when treating disease, poison, or radiation
ina creature. In this case, the bacta tank grants a +5 equipment bonus on
your Treat Injury check.

A bacta tank and a supply of bacta is expensive, so such medical equip-
ment is usually found only in hospitals, aboard capital ships, and within
major military bases. Each hour of treatment consumes one liter of bacta,

which costs 100 credits. A typical tank holds up to 300 liters of bacta, and
the tank must hold at least 150 liters at all times to provide any benefit. Only
one creature can be immersed in the tank at any given time.

Cybernetic Prosthesis

Prosthetic replacements in the Star Wars universe frequently take the form
of mechanical simulations powered by tiny high-capacity battery packs and
motivated by the recipient's bioelectrical impulses. In effect, someone who
loses a limb or an extremity can have an electronic replacement that acts
(and in some cases looks) just like the original.

Cybernetic prosthetic devices are unusual, but hardly rare. Luke Skywalker
gains a cybernetic replacement for his right hand, lost in battle against Darth
Vader—who, in turn, had much of his own body replaced with cybernetics
years before.

Attaching a cybernetic prosthesis requires the Cybernetic Surgery feat
(see page 83). Once attached, the cybernetic replacement performs as well
as the original limb or extremity. Common cybernetic prosthetics include

arms, hands, legs, feet, and various internal organs. In addition to the (ee)

of the prosthesis, the recipient must also cover the cost of the surgery (see
Table 8-9: Services and Expenses, page 144).

Unlike other creatures, a creature with cybernetic prosthetics takes full
damage from weapons and attacks that deal ion damage.

Because the Force is present in all living things, but not machines, crea-
tures with cybernetic prosthetics take a -1 penalty on Use the Furce checks
for each prosthetic replacement (to a maximum penalty of -5).

HA BStdvHa

LNSWANAaS)



--- Page 139 ---
iA HSaLtavHa

2
J

Medical Kit
This backpack-sized medical kit includes almost everything a first responder
needs to save a life: diagnostic scanners, anti-venom, medicine to counteract
the effects of contaminated water and radiation poisoning, burn treatments,
defibrillators, respirator, shock blankets, pressure cuffs, a collapsible repul-
sorlift stretcher for patient transport (capable of hovering with 160 kg load),
and even limited surgical tools. In addition, a medical kit has six external
pouches for carrying expendable medical supplies, such as medpacs.

You need a medical kit to revive a dying character, treat disease, treat
poison, or treat radiation (see the Treat Injury skill, page 74).

Medpac

Medpacs are compact packages designed to both equip a trained medic for work
in the field and to allow untrained individuals to apply first aid in emergencies. A
medpac contains bandages, bacta, synthetic flesh, coagulants, stimulants, and
other medicines designed to help an injured patient recover quickly.

Once you use a medpac, its contents are expended even if your Treat
Injury check is not successful. Any given creature can only benefit from the
use of a medpac once in a 24-hour period. (See the Treat Injury skill, page
74, for more information.)

Surgery Kit

This small kit contains the instruments a character needs to perform surgery
on a wounded character using the Treat Injury skill (see page 74). You must
be trained in the Treat Injury skill to perform surgery using a surgery kit.

SURVIVAL GEAR

Whether you're exploring the Dune Sea of Tatooine or scaling the volcanic
mountains of Mustafar, you need the right equipment to survive. The most
important considerations are food, water, shelter, and a way to signal for
help. On many worlds, a lack of survival gear leads to a quick death.

All-Temperature Cloak

This wrap-around cloak protects its wearer from the elements, providing a
+5 equipment bonus to its wearer's Fortitude Defense against extreme heat
or cold (see Extreme Temperatures, page 254).

Chain

This 3-meter (2-square) length of chain has damage reduction 10 and 5
hit points. It has Strength 44 and can safely support over 5 metric tons of
weight, and it can be broken with a DC 32 Strength check.

Field Kit
Essentially a backpack full of survival gear, the typical field kit contains two
condensing canteens with built-in water purification systems, a sunshield

roll, a week's worth of food rations, two glow rods, two breath masks, 24
filters, 12 atmosphere canisters, and an all-temperature cloak.

You need a field kit to make a Survival check to endure extreme tem-
peratures (see the Survival skill, page 73).

Jet Pack

A jet pack is a propulsion system that a character can strap on, allowing
flight over short distances. Arm and wrist controls are employed for maneu-
vering. Activating a jet pack is a swift action, and you gain a fly speed of
6 squares until the end of your turn. A jet pack has 10 charges and can be
run continuously; no swift action is required to activate the jet pack on
subsequent rounds of use.

Routine maneuvers do not require a Pilot check, but you must make a
DC 20 Pilot check if you land after moving more than 12 squares during the
same turn; on a failure, you fall prone.

A jet pack can lift up to 180 kg while flying. Replacement fuel cells cost
100 credits.

Liquid Cable Dispenser

Cable dispensers contain a special liquid that instantly solidifies upon contact
with either atmosphere or vacuum to form a tough, lightweight, flexible cable.
The dispenser contains enough liquid for 15 meters (10 squares) of cable and
is refillable at authorized outlets. The cable has Strength 28 and can safely
support up to 560 kg, and it can be broken with a DC 24 Strength check.

Ration Pack

Ration packs are compact meals that take up little room (you can fit six ina
pouch designed to carry a datapad) but have all the requirements to nour-
ish a person for one day. Each ration pack is geared for a range of species.
The food isn't appetizing, and it doesn't include water, but it does prevent
malnutrition.

Syntherope

Although not as compact and convenient as a liquid cable dispenser, synthe-
rope is stronger and more durable. A coil contains 45 meters (30 squares)
of syntherope, and unlike liquid cable it is meant to be reused. Syntherope
has Strength 30 and can safely support up to 720 kg, and it can be broken
with a DC 25 Strength check.

TOOLS

Any object designed to make a task easier—or take care of it entirely—is
essentially a tool. Most technical jobs can be performed with a security kit
or tool kit, but some devices not included in those packages don't fit under
any other category, and are presented here.


--- Page 140 ---
Binder Cuffs

Binder cuffs are durasteel restraints designed to lock two limbs of a prisoner
together, normally the wrists of ankles, but it is possible to lock one arm to
one leg or use the binder cuffs to hook a prisoner to a tree. The cuffs have
damage reduction 10, 20 hit points, and Strength 40. Breaking them requires
a DC 30 Strength check, and removing them without the seven-digit release
code requires a DC 25 Mechanics check. The binder cuffs can be attached to
the limbs of any creature of Large, Medium, or Small size.

Energy Cell

This small battery provides power for devices, including certain types of
weapons. An energy cell appears as a small, flat disk. An energy cell can be
recharged with a power recharger.

Fire Extinguisher
A full-round blast from this tool produces a chemical cloud that provides total
concealment (see page 156). Those inside the cloud can't see targets outside
the cloud, and those outside the cloud can't see targets inside the cloud.
The cloud spreads 1 square in all directions for every round it is activated. It
dissipates after 3 rounds (no matter how large the cloud). Each full-round
blast depletes one-tenth of the fire extinguisher's chemical supply.
lf used for its intended purpose, the extinguisher can put out a fire of up
to 10 squares in size at a rate of 1 square per round before it is depleted.
Reloading the fire extinguisher is a full-round action. Replacement chemi-
cal cartridges for the extinguisher cost 25 credits each.

Mesh Tape

The usefulness of mesh tape is limited only by a character's imagination. Mesh

tape adhesive has Strength 15 and can support up to 90 kg indefinitely (and

up to 180 kg for up to 5 rounds). Mesh tape itself has Strength 20 when used

to bind another character and requires a DC 20 Strength check to break.
Aroll provides 30 meters (20 squares) of tape, 5 centimeters wide.

Power Generator

A power generator is a small fusion reactor that provides continuous power
for heavy weapons, vehicles, structures, and machinery. It can power anything
up to a Gargantuan vehicle or structure indefinitely, a Colossal vehicle or
structure-for 1 day, and a vehicle or structure of Colossal (frigate) size for 1
hour. After that, it is disabled and must be repaired.

If a power generator is destroyed while in use, its fusion reactor overloads
and explodes, venting plasma into the surrounding area. When a fusion reac-
tor explodes, make an attack roll (1d20+10) against the Reflex Defense of
every target within 4 squares. If the attack succeeds, the target takes 8d6
points of energy damage. If the attack misses, the target takes half damage.
Atarget with the Evasion talent (see page 50) takes half damage if the attack
succeeds or no damage if the attack misses. This is an area attack

Power Pack

A power pack is a compact rectangular battery that fits into the grip or barrel
of an energy weapon, such as a blaster, to provide the power needed to fire
it. A power pack can be recharged with a power recharger.

Power Recharger

A power recharger is used to recharge a power pack or energy cell. The
recharge process takes 4 hours, and only one power pack or energy cell may
be recharged at a time. A power recharger holds enough power to recharge
100 packs or cells, but is normally connected to a ship's or building's power
supply, allowing it effectively unlimited recharge capacity.

Security Kit

Asecurity kit is a set of special tools for bypassing electronic and mechani-
cal locks. It usually includes electronic components and dedicated sensor
devices. On most worlds, possession of a security kit is illegal for anyone
who doesn't have the proper permits, such as members of law enforcement
agencies and professional security experts.

A security kit is required to bypass traps or security systems using the
Mechanics skill (see page 68). A security kit contains a comlink that monitors
frequencies typically used by silent alarms, so the user can know if such an
alarm has been triggered at any point during the operation.

Tool Kit
You need a tool kit to reprogram a droid or to repair a damaged droid or
vehicle. A tool kit also makes repairing devices much simpler.

The standard tool kit represents a broad collection of tools designed to
take apart, analyze, modify, and rebuild almost any technological device.
Most technicians personalize their tool kits over the course of years, but
almost all contain at least an electroshock probe (for shorting out electronic
components or soldering wires), fusion cutter (for cutting apart durasteel and
similar materials), hydrospanner (to tighten and loosen all forms of screws
and fasteners), laser welder (for connecting things), power calibrator (both
for analyzing circuitry and to act as an emergency power cell), power prybar
(for forcing things open), probe sensors, sonic welder (for connecting things
when you can't afford a fire), various circuits and connector wires, vibro-
cutters (for things that don't call for a fusion cutter), and welding goggles
(so you don’t burn out your eyes),

Many of these tools can be used as makeshift weapons. They all qualify
as simple weapons, but since they aren't designed for combat, they impose
a -5 penalty on attack rolls. (Droids with such tools on tool mounts don't
suffer these penalties, since they don't have to deal with an oddly shaped
handle.) Different tools deal different damage: electroshock probe, 1d8
ion; fusion cutter, 2d6 energy; laser welder, 1d8 energy; power prybar, 1d8
bludgeoning; sonic welder, 1d8 energy.

WA Ssilavno



--- Page 141 ---
140,

ANIWANACOES)

Utility Belt

A utility belt has several pouches containing a three-day supply of food
capsules, a medpac, a tool kit, a spare power pack, a spare energy cell, a
glow rod, a comlink, a liquid cable dispenser with a small grappling hook,
and a couple of empty pouches for whatever else the wearer wants to add
(up to 0.5 kg per pouch).

WEAPON AND ARMOR
ACCESSORIES

A number of off-the-shelf accessories can enhance one's performance on
the battlefield.

Bandolier
Since there are so many types of weapons, there are an equally large number
of ammunition types. Depending upon the weapons the wearer carries,
a bandolier may contain energy cells or power packs (for blasters), clips
(for slugthrowers), explosive bolts (for bowcasters), magazines (for missile
launchers), grenades, knives, or any number of other forms of ammunition.
A bandolier has 12 slots that can each hold a single Tiny weapon (such as
a grenade or a knife) or a single piece of equipment weighing up to 0.5 kg.
Any item on the bandolier can be retrieved as a move action.

Helmet Package

When installed in the helmet of a suit of armor, this electronic package
allows the armor to grant the wearer a +2 equipment bonus on Perception
checks as well as low-light vision. In addition, it includes an integrated
hands-free comlink. Stormtrooper armor and its variants include such a
system (MFTAS, or Multi-Frequency Target Acquisition System), already
included in its statistics. Installing a helmet package takes 1 hour and a DC
20 Mechanics check.

Holster

Holsters are generally available for all Medium or smaller weapons. (Larger
weapons are usually carried on shoulder straps, hangers, or baldrics that
cost as much as a hip holster.) A holster for a melee weapon is usually
called a sheath.

Hip Holster: This holster holds the weapon in an easily accessed—and
easily seen—location.

Concealed Holster: A concealed holster is designed to help keep a weapon
out of sight (see the Stealth skill, page 72). In most cases, this is a shoulder
holster (the weapon fits under the wearer's armpit, presumably beneath a
jacket, vest, or cloak). Small or Tiny weapons and single-bladed lightsabers
can be carried in concealed waistband holsters (often placed inside the
wearer's waistband in the small of the back). Tiny weapons and single-bladed
lightsabers can also be carried in ankle, boot, or wrist holsters.

A concealed holster allows you to draw a concealed weapon as a move
action instead of a standard action, but you take a -5 penalty on your Stealth
check to conceal the weapon.

Targeting Scope

A targeting scope is a sighting device that makes it easier to hit distant
targets. However, it affords a very limited field of view, making it difficult
to use. Installing a targeting scope on a rifle or pistol requires 10 minutes
and a DC 10 Mechanics check.

Standard: A standard targeting scope reduces the range by one category
(for example, from medium to short range). However, you must aim at your
target to gain this benefit, and you lose the benefit if you change targets or
lose line of sight to your target (see Aim, page 154).

Enhanced Low-Light: A low-light targeting scope functions the same as
a standard targeting scope in normal light. However, after aiming at a target,
it allows the wielder to ignore concealment (but not total concealment) from
darkness when attacking that target.

SERVICES AND
EXPENSES

A brief listing of common services and expenses is given on Table 8-9:
Services and Expenses. The cost figures on the table are guidelines only;
the cost of certain services and expenses may be higher in isolated or
primitive areas.

ENCUMBRANCE

Encumbrance rules determine how much your equipment slows you down.
Encumbrance comes in two parts: encumbrance by armor and encumbrance
by total weight.

ENCUMBRANCE BY ARMOR
Your armor defines your maximum Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense, your
armor check penalty, your speed, and how fast you move when you run (see
Armor, page 131). Unless your character is weak or carrying a lot of gear,
that's all you need to know. The extra gear your character carries, such as
weapons and medpacs, won't slow your character down any more than his
or her armor already does.

If your character is carrying a really heavy load, however, then you'll need
to calculate encumbrance by weight.

ENCUMBRANCE BY WEIGHT

If you want to determine whether your character's gear is heavy enough to
slow him or her down (more than any armor already does), add up the weight
of all the armor, weapons, and gear the character is carrying. If the total
equals or exceeds the square of one-half your character's Strength score,


--- Page 142 ---
he or she is carrying a heavy load. For example, a character with Strength
12 is carrying a heavy load if the total weight of his or her armor and gear
is 36 kg (0.5 x 12, squared) or more.

When carrying a heavy load, a character takes a -10 penalty on checks
made using the following skills: Acrobatics, Climb, Endurance, Initiative, Jump,
Stealth, and Swim. A heavy load also reduces the character's speed to three-
quarters normal (rounded down). A character can move up to three times
his or her speed when running with a heavy load (instead of four times).

CARRYING CAPACITY

The amount of weight that you can lift (in kilograms) is based on your
Strength score and determined by the following formula: (Strength score)?
x 0.5. For example, a character with Strength 15 can lift 112.5 kg (15 x 15
x 0.5).

A character can strain to lift an amount of weight (in kilograms) equal
to his Strength score squared, but he or she can only stagger around with
it. While overloaded in this way, the character loses any Dexterity bonus
to Reflex Defense and can only move 1 square per round (as a full-round
action).

A dragged object has less effective weight depending on the resistance
of the surface: normal ground, 1/2; smooth surface or wheels, 1/5; com-
pletely frictionless (such as pulling an object in zero-g or ona repulsorlift),
1/10. Dragging an object over rough ground is no easier than lifting it.

Bigger and Smaller Creatures: Larger creatures can carry more weight
depending on size category: Large (x2), Huge (x5), Gargantuan (x10), and
Colossal (x20). Smaller creatures can carry less weight depending on size
category: Small (x0.75), Tiny (x0.5), Diminutive (x0.25), Fine (x0.01).

SERVICE COST
Luxurious 150
Average 10
Budget
Luxurious 200

i fe : 100
Average 50

Budget

Bacta tank treatment (per hour) 300
Long-term care (per day) 300
Medpac treatment 300
Surgery (per hour) 500
Treat disease (per day) 500
reat poison (per hour) 100
Treat radiation (per day) 1,000

Taxi, local 10
Passage, steerage (up to 5 days) 500°
Passage, average (up to 5 days) 1,000
Passage, upscale (up to 5 days) 2,000
Passage, luxurious (up to 5 days) 5,000
Chartered space transport (up to 5 days) 10,000

Luxurious 10,000
Wealthy 5,000
Comfortable 2,000
Average 1,000
Struggling 500
Impoverished 200
Self-sufficient 100
WERICLE RENTAL (ER DAY) 2 i oe
Speeder bike 20
Landspeeder, average sae cae
Landspeeder, luxury 100
Airspeeder 500

1,000

Shuttle, interplanetary
Shuttle, interstellar

LNSEWAINES)



--- Page 143 ---
HAPTER lk



--- Page 144 ---
oS

—

———

The galaxy is a dangerous place, and sometimes you have to fight to survive.
Whether the enemy takes the form of battle droids or stormtroopers, a dark
Force-user or a rampaging rancor, you need to be able to defend yourself.
Using blasters, vibroblades, and lightsabers, heroes regularly get caught up
in blazing firefights, wild cantina brawls, and mesmerizing lightsaber duels.
You can try to bluff your way out of a tough situation, attempt to sneak
away when your opponent is distracted, or even dazzle an enemy with your
charming personality. But when all else fails, nothing beats having a good
blaster at your side.

This chapter details the combat rules, covering the basics first. The
back end of the chapter looks at some of the more unusual strategies that
heroes can employ, including using vehicles in combat. Many special abili-
ties and forms of damage that affect combat are covered in Chapter 14:
Gamemastering.

COMBAT SEQUENCE

Combat takes place in a series of rounds, with each character taking one
turn each round. Generally, combat runs in the following way: .

Step 1. The GM determines which characters are aware of their oppo-
nents at the start of the battle. If at least some combatants are unaware
of their opponents, a surprise round happens before regular rounds begin.
If there is a surprise round, each combatant starts the battle flat-footed. A
flat-footed character doesn't add a Dexterity bonus to his Reflex Defense.
Once combatants act, they are no longer flat-footed.

Step 2. The combatants who are aware of the opponents can act in the
surprise round, so they make an Initiative check. In initiative order (highest
to lowest), combatants who started the battle aware of their opponents each
take a single action (a standard action, a move action, or a swift action; no
full-round actions allowed) during the surprise round. Combatants who were
unaware do not get to act in the surprise round.

Step 3. Combatants who have not yet made an Initiative check do so.
All combatants are now ready to begin their first regular round. If all com-
batants were aware of their opponents when the battle began, there is no
surprise round and this is the first step in the combat sequence. If there is
no surprise round, no one starts flat-footed (everyone was alert enough to
be ready for a fight).

Step 4. Combatants act in initiative order.

Step 5. When everyone has had a turn, the combatant with the highest
initiative acts again, and steps 4 and 5 repeat until combat ends.

|
|
|

0
I
>
v
a
LU)
Bi
x



--- Page 145 ---
<i esto vHoD

Q
0)
x
O
3

THE COMBAT ROUND

Each round represents 6 seconds in the game world. In the real world, a
round is an opportunity for each character involved in a combat to take one
or more actions. Anything a person could reasonably do in 6 seconds, your
character can do in 1 round.

Each round begins with the character with the highest Initiative check
result and then proceeds, in descending order, from there. Each round uses
the same initiative order. When a character's turn comes up in the initiative
sequence, that character performs his entire round's worth of actions.

For almost all purposes, there is no relevance to the end of a round or the
beginning of a round. The term "round" works like the word "month." A month
can mean either a calendar month, or a span of time from a day in one month
to the same day the next month. In the same way, a round can be a segment
of game time starting with the first character to act and ending with the last,
but it usually means a span of time from one round to the same initiative
number in the next round. Effects that last a certain number of rounds end
just before the same initiative number that they began on.

ACTIONS IN COMBAT

Every round, on your character's turn, you may take a standard action, a
move action, and a swift action (in any order). You may take a move action
ora swift action in place of a standard action, but not the other way around.
You may also take a swift action in place of a move action, but not the other
way around. Finally, you may sacrifice all three of these actions to perform
a single full-round action on your turn.

STANDARD ACTION
|
MOVE ACTION

|
SWIFT ACTION

Standard Action: A standard action is usually the most important action
you'll take in a round, and it often consists of some sort of attack—swinging
a lightsaber, firing a blaster, throwing a punch, hurling a grenade, and so on.
You can perform one standard action on your turn.

Move Action: A move action represents physical movement. The most
common move action is moving your speed. Standing up from a prone position,
opening a door, and drawing a weapon are also move actions. You can perform
one move action on your turn, or two if you give up your standard action.

Swift Action: Most swift actions enable you to perform your standard
action. Examples include switching a weapon's mode and dropping a held
item. You can perform one swift action on your turn, or two if you give up
either your standard action or your move action, or three if you give up both
your standard action and your move action.

Full-Round Action: A full-round action consumes all of your effort during
a given round, effectively replacing all other actions on your turn. Some uses
of skills require a full-round action to complete. Examples include bypass-
ing a lock (using the Mechanics skill), searching an area for clues (using the
Perception skill), and entering a Force trance (using the Use the Force skill).
A full-round action can't span multiple rounds; for example, you cannot
perform a full-round action that replaces your move action and swift action
in the first round and your standard action in the following round.

Free Actions and Reactions
Some actions take such a negligible amount of time that they can be per-
formed in addition to other actions or they can happen out of turn:

Free Action: Free actions consume almost no time or effort, and you
may take one or more free actions even when it isn't your turn. Examples
include calling out to your friends for help and taunting a foe. The GM puts
reasonable limits on what counts as a free action. Reciting the epic history
of the Rodian hunter clans takes several minutes (or more) and therefore isn't
a free action. You can't take free actions when you're flat-footed.

Reaction: A reaction is an instantaneous response to someone else's
action, and you can use a reaction even if it is not your turn. Examples
of reactions include making a Perception check to notice a bounty hunter
sneaking up behind you and instantly activating a Force power to absorb
damage from an incoming blaster bolt.

COMBAT STATISTICS

Several fundamental statistics determine how well you do in combat. This
section summarizes these statistics.

ATTACK ROLL

Attacking is a standard action. When you make an attack roll, roll 120 and

add the appropriate modifiers. If your result is equal to or higher than the

target's Reflex Defense, you hit and deal damage (see Damage below).
Your attack roll with a melee weapon or unarmed attack is:

1d20 + base attack bonus + Strength modifier
Your attack roll with a ranged weapon is:

1d20 + base attack bonus + Dexterity modifier + range penalty
(if any)

Base Attack Bonus: Your class and level determine your base attack
bonus.

Strength Modifier: Strength helps you swing a weapon harder and faster
so your Strength modifier applies to melee attack rolls.


--- Page 146 ---
Dexterity Modifier: Since Dexterity measures coordination and steadiness,
your Dexterity modifier applies to attacks with ranged weapons.

Range Penalty: A ranged weapon can attack a target at point blank, short,
medium, or long range. If you make a ranged attack against a target within
the weapon's point blank range, you take no penalty on the attack roll; your
penalty on attack rolls increases to -2 at short range, -5 at medium range,
and -10 at long range (see Table 8-5: Weapon Ranges, page 129).

Critical Hits

When you roll a natural 20 on your attack roll (the d20 comes up "20"), the
attack automatically hits, no matter how high the defender's Reflex Defense.
In addition, you score a critical hit and deal double damage. All targets are
subject to critical hits, even inanimate objects.

Automatic Misses

When you roll a natural 1 on your attack roll (the d20 comes up 1"), the
attack automatically misses, no matter how high the bonus on the attack
roll is.

DAMAGE
When you hit with an attack, you deal damage that reduces the enemy's hit
points (see Hit Points, below).

Damage with a melee weapon or thrown melee weapon is calculated
as follows:

Weapon damage + one-half heroic level (rounded down) + Strength
modifier 5

Damage with a ranged weapon is calculated as follows:
Weapon damage + one-half heroic level (rounded down)

Weapon Damage: A hit always deals at least 1 point of damage, even if
penalties to damage bring the damage result below 1.

One-Half Heroic Level: Weapons are simply more dangerous in the hands
of powerful heroes (and villains).

Strength Modifier: When you hit with a melee weapon or thrown melee
weapon, you add your Strength modifier to damage. When you hit with
a melee weapon that you are wielding two-handed, you add double your
Strength bonus (if any) to the damage. This higher Strength modifier does
not apply to two-handed melee attacks with light weapons.

DEFENSES
Your defenses represent your ability to avoid taking damage and overcome
attacks against the body and mind. You have three defense scores:

Reflex Defense: 10 + your heroic level or armor bonus + Dexterity
modifier + class bonus + natural armor bonus + size modifier

Fortitude Defense: 10 + your heroic level + Constitution modifier +
class bonus + equipment bonus

Will Defense: 10 + your heroic level + Wisdom modifier + class
bonus

Your species, talents, feats, and actions may grant additional bonuses to
one or more of these defenses. For example, Gamorreans gain a +2 species
bonus to Fortitude Defense, while a character with the Improved Defenses
feat (page 85) gains a +1 bonus to all three defenses.

Reflex Defense

Your Reflex Defense (Ref) represents how hard you are to hit in combat, and
most attacks target a creature's Reflex Defense. If an opponent's attack roll
equals or exceeds your Reflex Defense, the attack hits.

Heroic Level: Your heroic level is the sum of all levels you have in heroic
classes (Jedi, noble, scoundrel, scout, soldier) and prestige classes (see
Chapter 12). It does not include levels in the nonheroic class (see page 277)
or beast class (see page 273).

Armor Bonus: Your armor bonus is determined by the armor you wear
(see Table 8-7: Armor, page 132). If you are wearing armor, add your armor
bonus to your Reflex Defense instead of your heroic level. This represents
the difference between using your innate skill to avoid injury and counting
on your armor to absorb the damage from incoming attacks.

Dexterity Modifier: Nimble targets are more difficult to hit than slow
ones. Add your Dexterity modifier to your Reflex Defense. If you are flat-
footed or unaware of an attack, you lose your Dexterity bonus (but not a
penalty) to your Reflex Defense. If you are helpless (for example, knocked
unconscious), calculate your Reflex Defense as if you had a Dexterity score
of 0 (-5 modifier).

Size Modifier: Smaller creatures are harder to hit than bigger ones. Apply
the appropriate size modifier to your Reflex Defense (and only your Reflex
Defense). Size modifiers are as follows: Colossal, -10; Gargantuan, -5; Huge,
-2; Large, -1; Medium, +0; Small, +1; Tiny, +2; Diminutive, +5; Fine, +10.

Fortitude Defense

Your Fortitude Defense (Fort) represents your ability to resist the effects of
poison, disease, and radiation, as well as your ability to ignore effects that
would incapacitate a normal being.

Heroic Level: Your heroic level is the sum of all levels you have in heroic
classes (Jedi, noble, scoundrel, scout, soldier) and prestige classes (see
Chapter 12). It does not include levels in the nonheroic class (see page 277)
or beast class (see page 273).

Ki BSLtadvHo

AVOWED)



--- Page 147 ---
AVEWOS b Ea BSiavHo

Constitution Modifier: Tougher, healthier targets are more difficult to
hurt than weaker ones, so you add your Constitution modifier to your Forti-
tude Defense. A nonliving target (that is, any target without a Constitution
score, such as a droid) instead adds its Strength modifier to its Fortitude
Defense.

Equipment Bonus: Some kinds of armor provide an equipment bonus to
your Fortitude Defense (see Table 8-7: Armor, page 132).

Will Defense
Your Will Defense (Will) represents your willpower and your ability to resist
certain Force powers and other effects that attack your mind.

Heroic Level: Your heroic level is the sum of all levels you have in heroic
classes (Jedi, noble, scoundrel, scout, soldier) and prestige classes (see
Chapter 12). It does not include levels in the nonheroic class (see page 277)
or beast class (see page 273).

Wisdom Modifier: Strong-willed characters are harder to influence than
weak-willed ones. You add your Wisdom modifier to your Will Defense.
When you are unconscious, you have an effective Wisdom score of 0 (-5
modifier).

SPEED
Your speed tells you how far you can move with a single move action. Your
speed depends mostly on your species, although certain kinds of armor can
reduce your speed (see Armor, page 131). Some creatures, droids, and vehicles
have a natural climb, burrow, fly, and/or swim speed in addition to their
normal land speed. Any effect that reduces speed affects all of a creature's
movement modes unless noted otherwise.

Speed is measured in squares. Each square represents 1.5 meters (about
5 feet).

Fly: A creature with a fly speed is capable of flight, but not if it is carrying
a heavy load (see Encumbrance, page 140).

HiT POINTS
Hit points (sometimes abbreviated "hp") represent two things in the game
world: the ability to take physical punishment and keep going, and the abil-
ity to turn a serious blow into a graze or near miss. As you become more
experienced, you become more adept at parrying strikes, dodging attacks,
and rolling with blows such that you minimize or avoid significant physical
trauma, but all this effort slowly wears you down. Rather than trying to
keep track of the difference between attacks and how much physical injury
you take, hit points are an abstract measure of your total ability to survive
damage.

As long as you have at least 1 hit point, you can act normally on your
turn.

Second Wind

If you are reduced to one-half your maximum hit points or less, you can
catch a second wind as a swift action. This action heals one-quarter of your
full hit point total (rounded down) or a number of hit points equal to your
Constitution score, whichever is greater. You can catch a second wind only
once per day. Certain feats or talents may allow you to catch a second wind
more often, but never more than once in a single encounter.

Only heroic characters can catch a second wind; nonheroic characters,
creatures, objects, devices, and vehicles cannot. Exception: A nonheroic
character that takes the Extra Second Wind feat (page 85) can catch a
second wind once per day.

0 Hit Points

A creature reduced to 0 hit points moves -5 steps on the condition track and
falls unconscious (see Falling Unconscious, below). However, if the damage
that reduced the creature to 0 hit points equals or exceeds its damage
threshold, the creature is killed instead (see Damage Threshold, below).

A droid, object, or vehicle reduced to 0 hit points moves -5 steps on the
condition track and is disabled (but repairable). However, if the damage that
reduced it to 0 hit points equals or exceeds its damage threshold, the droid,
object, or vehicle is destroyed instead. A destroyed droid, object, or vehicle
cannot be repaired.

Damage Threshold

Attacks that deal massive amounts of damage can impair or incapacitate
you regardless of how many hit points you have remaining. Your damage
threshold determines how much damage a single attack must deal to reduce
your combat effectiveness or, in some cases, kill you. Your damage threshold
is calculated as follows:

Damage threshold = Fortitude Defense + size modifier

Size Modifier: Creatures, droids, and vehicles larger than Medium size
gain a size bonus to their damage threshold. This size bonus is +5 for Large,
+10 for Huge, +20 for Gargantuan, and +50 for Colossal.

When a single attack made against you deals damage that equals or
exceeds your damage threshold, but not enough damage to drop you to 0
hit points, you move -1 step along the condition track (see Conditions, page
148). If the damage reduces you to 0 hit points, you are dead.

Droids, Objects, and Vehicles: A droid, object, or vehicle reduced to 0 hit
points by an attack that deals damage equal to or greater than its damage
threshold is destroyed.

Spending a Force Point: If you are reduced to 0 hit points by an attack
that deals damage equal to or greater than your damage threshold, you
can avoid death by immediately spending a Force Point, even if you spent a
Force Point earlier in the round. A character who spends a Force Point in this


--- Page 148 ---
fashion remains at 0 hit points, moves -5 steps along the condition track
(see Conditions, page 148), and falls unconscious.

If a droid is reduced to 0 hit points by an attack that deals damage equal
to or greater than its damage threshold, it may spend a Force Point in this
manner to be disabled instead of destroyed.

Improved Damage Threshold: You can increase your damage threshold
by taking the Improved Damage Threshold feat (page 86).

Falling Unconscious
Acreature pushed to the bottom of the condition track (see Conditions, page
148) or reduced to 0 hit points falls unconscious. When you fall unconscious,

you fall prone and are unable to take any actions. After 1 minute (10 rounds),
you make a DC 10 Constitution check. On a success, you move +1 step on
the condition track, regain consciousness, recover hit points equal to your
level, and can act normally on your next turn (although you start prone).
If the check fails, you remain unconscious for 1 hour, after which you can
attempt another Constitution check. You make a new Constitution check
every hour until you regain consciousness. If you fail by 5 or more points,
or if you roll a natural 1 on your Constitution check, you are dead. You can't
take 10 on the Constitution check.

If you fail a Constitution check to regain consciousness, your condition
becomes persistent (see page 149), which means that you can't heal damage

xl eeLevnS

IVEWOES



--- Page 149 ---
SM! HSLavHo

LVEWOS)

naturally and you can't use the recover action (see page 154) until you've
had surgery performed on you or until you get eight consecutive, uninter-
rupted hours of rest.

An unconscious character or creature subjected to a coup de grace attack
(see page 154) or an attack that deals damage equal to or greater than its
damage threshold dies immediately.

A character or creature that receives any kind of healing while uncon-
scious immediately revives and can get up to fight again (but starts
prone); the healed character or creature has a number of hit points equal
to the amount of healing it received, and it moves +1 step on the condi-
tion track.

Droids: When a droid is disabled (the equivalent of being unconscious),
it moves -5 steps on the condition track, falls prone, and is unable to take
any actions. It remains inert and inoperative until repaired (see the Mechan-
ics skill, page 68). A droid that is repaired immediately reactivates and can
get up to fight again (but starts prone). The repaired droid gains a number
of hit points equal to the amount repaired, and it moves +1 step on the
condition track.

Objects, Devices, and Vehicles: When an object, device, or vehicle is
disabled, it moves -5 steps on the condition track and no longer functions.
It remains inert and inoperative until repaired (see the Mechanics skill, page
68). A repaired object, device, or vehicle gains a number of hit points equal
to the amount repaired, and it moves +1 step on the condition track.

Death

A character or creature that dies cannot be brought back to life except under
special circumstances (see the revivify ability of the Treat Injury skill, page
74). Similarly, a destroyed droid, object, or vehicle cannot be repaired.

The Star Wars galaxy is a vast and perilous wilderness, and heroes who
fight against evil and tyranny sometimes make the ultimate sacrifice. When
a hero dies, the only thing a player can do is bid her character a fond farewell
and roll up a new one.

Natural Healing
A living creature that gets eight consecutive, uninterrupted hours of rest
regains hit points equal to its level. A living creature cannot heal naturally
if it has any persistent conditions (see next page), and a creature can only
benefit from natural healing once in a 24-hour period.

In addition to the hit points gained from natural healing, a creature can
regain additional hit points from first aid or long-term care (see Treat Injury
skill, page 74).

CONDITIONS
Certain debilitating attacks reduce one's combat effectiveness instead of
one's hit points. Examples include a stun grenade blast, a force march, a
paralyzing venom, or long-term exposure to extreme temperatures. Multiple
conditions have cumulative effects and can quickly drive a creature from its
normal state to unconsciousness or disable an otherwise functional droid,
device, or vehicle.

Physically debilitating attacks are usually made against the target's For-
titude Defense, while mentally debilitating attacks target one's Will Defense.
Either type of attack pushes the target along the same track.

The Condition Track

A creature, droid, object, or vehicle not affected by any debilitating condi-
tions is assumed to be in a "normal state," which represents one end of the
condition track. Each debilitating effect to which it succumbs moves it one
or more steps along the condition track. A creature pushed to the last step
on the condition track falls unconscious (see Falling Unconscious, above).
A droid, object, or vehicle pushed to the last step on the condition track is
disabled until repaired using the Mechanics skill (see page 68).

When a device is pushed down the condition track, apply the indicated
penalty on skill checks to any skill check made using the device.

When a vehicle is pushed down the condition track, all of the vehicle's
occupants suffer the same penalties as the vehicle itself until the vehicle is
disabled. Penalties imposed by multiple condition tracks are cumulative; in
other words, a vehicle's occupants suffer the effects of their own personal
condition tracks in addition to the effects of the vehicle's condition track.

Removing Conditions

You can improve your condition by spending three swift actions to use the
recover action, moving +1 step along the condition track. You can spend all
three swift actions in a single round or spread them out across consecutive
rounds. For example, you could spend a swift action at the end of one turn
and two swift actions at the start of your next turn to move +1 step along
the condition track. Certain situations may prevent you from spending swift
actions to move toward a normal state on the condition track (see Persistent
Conditions, below).

Resting for eight consecutive, uninterrupted hours usually removes all
debilitating conditions afflicting a creature and returns it to its normal
state. Some causes of debilitation, such as poison and hunger, may prevent
a creature from improving its condition or returning to its normal state until
the cause of the debilitation is treated (see Persistent Conditions, below).


--- Page 150 ---
Normal state (no penalties)

-1 step } +1 step

to all defenses;

ability checks, and skill checks

-1 step } +1 step

-1 step } +1 step

-1 step } +1 step

-1 step +1 step

Persistent Conditions

Some hazards and attacks (such as poison and disease) result in a persistent
condition that cannot be removed except in certain circumstances. Any time
a condition is persistent, you cannot use the recover action (see page 154)
to move steps up the condition track, and you do not regain any hit points
from natural healing. However, once a persistent condition is removed by
satisfying the requirements stated in its description, you can move up the
condition track and heal normally.

Persistent conditions do not prevent you from moving up the condition
track by means other than the recover action or resting for 8 hours. For
example, an unconscious creature that fails its first Constitution check has
a persistent condition from its injuries, but it still moves +1 step on the
condition track when it makes a successful Constitution check to regain
consciousness.

Multiple Persistent Conditions: Sometimes you are affected by more
than one persistent condition. For example, you might be poisoned after
already suffering the effects of a disease. In this case, you must satisfy the
requirements for removing all of these persistent conditions before you can
move up the condition track.

INITIATIVE

In every round during combat, each combatant gets to do something. The
combatants’ Initiative checks determine the order in which they act, from
highest to lowest.

INITIATIVE CHECKS

At the start of a battle, each player makes an Initiative skill check for his
character. (A character can make an Initiative check untrained.) The GM rolls
Initiative checks for the opponents. All combatants act in order, from the
highest Initiative check result to the lowest. A character's initiative count
remains the same for all rounds of the combat unless a character takes an
action that causes her place in the initiative order to change (see Special
Initiative Actions, page 161).

The GM should write the names of the characters on a piece of scrap paper
in initiative order. That way, in subsequent rounds the GM can move quickly
from one character to the next. If two combatants have the same Initiative
check result, the character with the highest Initiative check modifier acts
first. If there is still a tie, roll a die.

To save time, the GM can make a single Initiative check for all of the bad
guys, rolling 1d20 and adding the lowest Initiative check modifier in the
group. That way, each player gets a turn each round and the GM also gets
one turn. At the GM's option, however, he can make separate Initiative checks
for different groups of opponents or even for individual foes. For instance,
the GM may make one Initiative check for an Imperial officer and another
check for his squad of stormtroopers.

YOINING A BATTLE
If characters enter a battle after it has begun, they make their Initiative check
at that time and act whenever their turn comes up in the existing order.

FLAT-FOOTED

In any battle that begins with a surprise round (see Surprise, below), you
start the battle flat-footed. You remain flat-footed until your first regular
turn in the initiative order. You can't apply your Dexterity bonus (if any) to
your Reflex Defense while flat-footed.

SURPRISE

When combat starts, if you are not aware of your enemies but they are aware
of you, you're surprised. If you know about your opponents but they don't
know about you, you surprise them.



--- Page 151 ---
AWARENESS AND SURPRISE
Sometimes all the combatants on a side are aware of their opponents;
sometimes none are; sometimes only some of them are. Sometimes a few
combatants on each side are aware and the other combatants on each side
are unaware.

Determining Awareness

The GM determines who is aware of whom at the start of a battle. She may
call for Perception checks to see how aware the characters are of their
opponents. Some example situations:

© The mission team enters a cantina and immediately spots a gang of
Rodians. Alert and watchful, the Rodians also notice the heroes. Both
sides are aware; neither is surprised. The heroes and the Rodians make
Initiative checks, and the battle begins.

e While exploring an abandoned armory, the heroes are being watched by
a pack of Jawas. The Jawas lurk in hiding places, waiting for the right
time to strike and defend their new lair from the intruders. Sia-Lan spots
one of the Jawas as it tries to sneak behind a partially destroyed battle
droid. The Jawas shriek and leap from their hiding places, surrounding
the heroes. The Jawas and Sia-Lan each get to act during the surprise
round. The other heroes, caught unaware, can't act. After the surprise
round, the first regular round of combat begins.

e The mission team advances down a dark corridor in the space-station
fortress of Grumbog, an alien warlord, using glow rods to light the way.
At the end of the corridor, three of Grumbog's soldiers have set up an
E-Web repeating blaster. They fire the weapon, sending a powerful blast
down the corridor. That's the end of the surprise round. After determin-
ing whether any of the heroes were hit and calculating damage, the GM
announces that the first regular round of combat begins. The mission
team is in a tough spot, since they are facing a powerful weapon and
still can’t see who is attacking them.

The Surprise Round

If some but not all of the combatants are aware of their opponents, a surprise
round happens before regular rounds begin. The combatants who are aware of
their opponents can act in the surprise round, so they make Initiative checks.
In initiative order (highest to lowest), combatants who started the battle
aware of their opponents each take a single action—a standard action, a move
action, or a swift action—during the surprise round. If no one is surprised, a
surprise round doesn't occur.

Unaware Combatants: Combatants who are unaware at the start of
battle do not get to act in the surprise round. Unaware combatants are flat-
footed because they have not acted yet, so they do not apply their Dexterity
bonus (if any) to their Reflex Defense.

TYPES OF ACTIONS

The fundamental combat actions of moving and attacking cover most of
what you want to do in a battle. They're all described here and summarized
in Table 9-1: Actions in Combat.

STANDARD ACTIONS
A standard action is usually the most important action you'll take in a round,
and it often consists of some sort of attack—swinging a lightsaber, firing
a blaster, throwing a punch, hurling a grenade, and so on. You can perform
one standard action in a given round of combat.

A standard action could be any one of the following:

Attack with a Melee Weapon

With a melee weapon, you can strike any enemy in a square you can threaten.
Small and Medium characters threaten the squares adjacent to them. Bigger
creatures may threaten a larger number of squares, as defined by their reach
(see Reach, page 161).

Two-Handed Melee Weapons: When you wield a melee weapon two-
handed, add double your Strength bonus (if any) to the damage. This higher
Strength modifier does not apply to light weapons (weapons smaller than
your size).

Improvised Weapons: Sometimes objects not crafted to be weapons
get used: chairs, bottles, crates, and so on. Because these objects are not
designed for such use, characters who use improvised weapons are treated
as not proficient with them and take a -5 penalty on their attack rolls. The
GM determines the size and damage dealt by an improvised weapon.

Attack with a Ranged Weapon

With a ranged weapon, you can throw or shoot at any target within your
line of sight. A target is in line of sight if there are no obstructions (includ-
ing other characters) between you and the target. The maximum range
of a ranged attack depends on the weapon used (see Table 8-5: Weapon
Ranges, page 129).

A ranged weapon can attack a target at point blank, short, medium, or
long range. If you make a ranged attack against a target within the weapon's
point blank range, you take no penalty on the attack roll; your penalty on
attack rolls increases to -2 at short range, -5 at medium range, and -10
at long range.

Improvised Thrown Weapons: Sometimes objects not crafted to be
weapons get thrown: small rocks, vases, pitchers, lightsabers, and so forth.
Because these objects are not designed for such use, characters who use
improvised thrown weapons are treated as not proficient with them and take
a -5 penalty on their attack rolls. The GM determines the size and damage
dealt by an improvised thrown weapon.


--- Page 152 ---
HIT = DAMAGE

STRENGTH

HIT DAMAGE STRENGTH

OBJECT POINTS THRESHOLD (BREAK DC?) OBJECT DR' POINTS THRESHOLD (BREAK DC?)
Fine (comlink) - 1 5 1 (10) Mesh tape - 1 15 20 (20)
Diminutive (datapad) - 1 5 1 (10) Liquid cable - 2 19 28 (24)
Tiny (computer) - 2 5 1 (10) Syntherope - 4 20 30 (25)
Small (storage bin) 2 3 6 4 (12) Chain 10 5 26 32 (26)
Medium (desk) 5 5 10 10 (15) Binder cuffs 10 20 25 40 (30)
Huge (conference table) 10 10 35 20 (20) Cheap - 1 5 1 (10)
Gargantuan (small bridge) 10 20 55 40 (30) Average 2 5 10 10 (15)
Colossal (house) 10 30 85 80 (50) Good 5 10 15 20 (20)
Computer console - 5 10 10 (15) Ultrahigh security 20 150 35 60 (40)
Weapon, Tiny (hold-out blaster) 5 2 10 10(15) ~~ Barri ete i Sa
Weapon, Small (blaster pistol) 5 5 12 15 (17) Metal bars (2 cm thick) 10 30 25 40 (30)
Weapon, Medium (blaster rifle) 5 10 15 20 (20) Permacrete wall (30 cm thick) 10 wins 30 50 (35)
Weapon, Large (heavy blaster rifle) 10 10 17 25 (25) Metal wall or hull (15 cm thick) 10 150 35 60 (40)
Weapon, Huge (E-Web) 10 20 30 30 (30) Wooden door (5 cm thick) 5 25 10 10 (15)

1 Lightsabers ignore an object's damage reduction. Metal door or airlock (5 cm thick) 10 50 30 0 (35)

Blast door (50 cm thick) 10 750 40 70 (45)

2 The DC of the Strength check to disable the object.

Aid Another
Asa standard action, you can aid an ally's next skill check or attack roll, or
you can interfere with an enemy's attacks.

Aiding a Skill Check or Ability Check: You can help another character
achieve success on her skill check or ability check by making the same kind
of skill check or ability check in a cooperative effort. If you roll a 10 or higher
on your check, the character you are helping gains a +2 bonus on her check.
You can't take 10 on a skill check or ability check to aid another.

Aiding an Attack Roll: In combat, you can aid another character's attack
by forcing an opponent to avoid your own attacks, making it more difficult
for him to avoid your ally. Select an opponent and make an attack against a
Reflex Defense of 10. If you succeed, you grant a +2 bonus on a single ally's
next attack roll against that opponent.

Suppressing an Enemy: In combat, you can distract or interfere with an
opponent, making his attacks more difficult. Select an opponent and make an
attack against a Reflex Defense of 10. If you succeed, that opponent takes
a-2 penalty on its next attack roll.

Attack an Object

Sometimes you need to attack an object such as a door, a control console, or
a held weapon, either to destroy it or to bypass it. An unattended, immobile
object has a Reflex Defense of 5 + its size modifier; an unattended, moving
object has a Reflex Defense of 10 + its size modifier. If you hit it, you deal
damage as normal. However, an object usually has damage reduction (DR),
which means that any attack that hits it has its damage reduced by the
indicated amount. (Lightsabers ignore an object's damage reduction.) An
object reduced to 0 hit points is disabled. If the damage that reduces the
object to 0 hit points also equals or exceeds the object's damage threshold,
the object is destroyed instead.

Like characters, objects become increasingly debilitated if they take a lot
of damage at once. If an object takes damage from a single attack that equals
or exceeds its damage threshold, it moves -1 step on the condition track. An
object that moves -5 steps on the condition track is disabled.

Held, Carried, or Worn Objects: A held, carried, or worn object is much
harder to hit than an unattended object and has a Reflex Defense equal to 10
+ the object's size modifier + the Reflex Defense of the holder (not counting
armor bonus or natural armor bonus, if any).

KI eSidVvHO

ATENOE | 7



--- Page 153 ---
xl HeLavHoS

SUBSTANCE . DR

—_ HIT POINTS
Paper (flimsiplast, durasheet) St

1 per cm of thickness
1 per cm of thickness
1 per cm of thickness
1 per cm of thickness
1 per em of thickness

Rope (syntherope, liquid cable) _
Soft plastic (synthmesh, synthleather) -
Glass (duraplex, plastex) -
Ice or delicate crystal -
Ceramic (ceramisteel)

Hard plastic (duraplast, plasteel) 2 2 per cm of thickness
Wood (synthwood or any natural variety) 5 5 per cm of thickness
Light metal (transparisteel) 5 5 per cm of thickness
Stone (permacrete, ferrocrete) 10. 5 per cm of thickness
Metal (durasteel, quadanium steel) 10 10 per cm of thickness
Heavy metal (duranium, lanthanide) 10 15 per cm of thickness

Exotic metal (neutronium, Mandalorian steel) 20 20 per cm of thickness

Multipart Objects: Very large objects can have separate hit point
totals for different sections. For example, you can break the window of an
airspeeder without destroying the whole speeder.

The Right Weapon for the Job: The GM may determine that certain
weapons just can't deal damage effectively to certain objects. For example,
you will have a hard time breaking open a blast door with a cesta or cutting
a cable with a club. The GM may also rule that certain attacks are especially
successful against some objects. For example, it's easy to sheer or ignite a
curtain with a lightsaber.

Strength: All objects have a Strength score that represents their innate
ability to bear weight (see Encumbrance, page 140). An object supporting
weight in excess of its heavy load moves -1 step along the condition track
immediately and another -1 step each round on the same initiative count.
If an object is supporting weight in excess of twice its heavy load, it is
immediately disabled.

Breaking an Object: When you try to break something with sudden force
rather than by dealing regular damage, use a Strength check to determine
whether you succeed. The DC depends more on the construction of the item
than on the material (see Table 9-1: Statistics for Objects), but it is usually
equal to 15 + the object's Strength modifier. Attempting to break an object
is a standard action. If the object has moved steps down the condition track,
apply the condition penalty to the object's break DC.

Object Statistics: Use Table 9-1: Statistics for Objects and Table 9-2:
Statistics for Substances to determine or extrapolate the statistics for any
given object.

Charge

As a standard action, you can move your speed (minimum 2 squares) in a
straight line through unobstructed terrain, and then make a melee attack at
the end of your movement. You gain a +2 bonus on your attack roll and take
a -2 penalty to your Reflex Defense until the start of your next turn. You
cannot charge through low objects, difficult terrain, or squares occupied by
enemies, but allies do not hinder your charge.

Disarm
As a standard action, you may attempt to disarm an opponent, forcing him
to drop one weapon (or other object) that he is holding.

Making a Disarm Attack: Make a normal melee attack roll against your
opponent, who gets a +10 bonus to his Reflex Defense. If your opponent is
holding the weapon with more than one hand, you take a -5 penalty on your
attack roll to disarm him.

If the attack succeeds, your opponent is disarmed. If you successfully
disarm your opponent with an unarmed attack, you can take the disarmed
weapon. Otherwise, it's on the ground at your opponent's feet (in his fight-
ing space).

If your disarm attack fails, your opponent can make an immediate free
attack against you.

Improved Disarm: If you have the Improved Disarm feat (see page 85),
you get a +5 bonus on your melee attack roll to disarm an opponent, and
your opponent doesn't get to make an immediate free attack against you if
your disarm attack fails.

Ranged Disarm: If you have the Ranged Disarm talent (see page 217),
you can attempt to disarm your opponent with a ranged attack. If the attack
fails, your opponent doesn't get an immediate free attack against you.

Fight Defensively
As a standard action, you can concentrate more on protecting yourself than
hurting your enemies. You can take a -5 penalty on your attack rolls and gain
a +2 dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense until the start of your next turn.
If you choose to make no attacks until your next turn (not even attacks of
opportunity), you gain a +5 dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense until the
start of your next turn.

Acrobatics: If you are trained in the Acrobatics skill, you instead get a
+5 dodge bonus to your Reflex Defense when you fight defensively, or a +10
dodge bonus if you choose to make no attacks.

Grab

As a standard action, you can make a grab attack. A grab attack is treated
as an unarmed attack except that it doesn't deal damage and you take a
-5 penalty on the attack roll. You can only grab an opponent up to one size
category larger than yourself, and only one opponent at a time.


--- Page 154 ---
Until it breaks the grab, a grabbed creature takes a -2 penalty on attack
rolls unless it uses a natural weapon ora light weapon. Additionally, it cannot
move until it breaks the grab. Breaking the grab is a standard action and
automatically clears one grabber per character level. (The grabbed creature
chooses which grabbers it clears if there are any left over.)

Grapple

A grapple attack is an improved version of the grab attack (see above).
You can only make a grapple attack (a standard action) if you have the Pin
feat, the Trip feat, or both. You can only grapple an opponent up to one size
category larger than you, and only one opponent at a time.

A grappling attack is treated as an unarmed attack except that it deals
no damage. If the grappling attack hits, you and the target immediately
make opposed grapple checks. A grapple check is 1d20 + base attack bonus
+ Strength or Dexterity modifier (whichever is higher) + size modifier (see
below). If your check result equals or exceeds the target's check result, the
target is grappled.

The effects of a grapple depend on the specific feat or combination of
feats you are using (see the feat descriptions in Chapter 5: Feats): Pin, Pin
and Crush, Trip, or Trip and Throw.

Alternatively, if you are armed with a light weapon, you may deal damage
with that weapon if you win the opposed grapple check; no attack roll is
necessary.

Size modifiers for the grapple check are as follows: Fine, -20; Diminutive,
-15; Tiny, -10; Small, -5; Medium, +0; Large, +5; Huge, +10; Gargantuan,
+15; Colossal, +20.

MOVE ACTIONS

Amove action represents physical movement. The most common move action

ismoving your speed. You can perform one move action on your turn, or two

ifyou give up your standard action. With the exception of specific movement-

related skills, most move actions don't require skill checks. In some cases

(such as shouldering open a stuck door), ability checks might be required.
Move actions include the following:

Move
You can move up to your speed as a move action. Even moving 1 square is
considered a move action.

Nonstandard modes of movement are also covered by this type of action,
including climbing and riding an animal.

Draw or Holster a Weapon
Drawing or holstering a weapon is a move action.

Quick Draw: If you have the Quick Draw feat (page 87), you can draw or
holster a weapon as a swift action instead of a move action.

Manipulate an Item

Manipulating an item includes drawing or holstering a weapon, picking up an

item, loading a weapon, opening a door, or moving a heavy object.
Retrieve a Stored Item: Retrieving an item out of a backpack, carrying

case, or other closed container requires two move actions, one to open the

container and one to get the item. Holsters, utility belts, and bandoliers are

not considered to be closed containers for this purpose.

Stand Up
Standing up from a prone position requires a move action.

Acrobatics: If you are trained in the Acrobatics skill (see page 62), you
can stand up from a prone position as a swift action with a successful DC
15 Acrobatics check.

Withdraw
You can withdraw from combat as a move action. To withdraw, the first 1
square of your movement must take you out of your opponent's threatened
area by the shortest possible route. If you must move more than 1 square
to escape the threatened area, you can't withdraw. You can move normally
(take a move action) in order to escape an opponent, but you provoke an
attack of opportunity when doing so.

Once you clear the threatened area, you may continue to move, up to a
total of half your speed.

You can disengage from more than one opponent in the same action, but
only if you can clear all threatened areas in your first 1 square of movement.

Disengaging protects you from attacks of opportunity during your first
square of movement, but you may provoke attacks of opportunity later in
your turn (for example, you may move through another character's threat-
ened area).

Swift ACTIONS

Things that require very little time or effort can be accomplished with a swift
action. Some actions, feats, and talents require one or more swift actions
to perform. You normally get one swift action per round, but you can take a
second swift action instead of a standard action or move action, and you can
take three swift actions in a round if you give up both your standard action
and move action. Multiple swift actions usually have to occur on the same
round or consecutive rounds, and some actions require that the multiple
swift actions be consecutive (that is, no other action interrupts them). This
is noted in the action's description.

Swift actions include the following:

Activate an Item
A swift action allows you to activate an item. Starting a vehicle, turning on a
computer, and lighting a fusion lantern are all examples of activating an item.

@)
.
x



--- Page 155 ---
xl HsiavHa

AVEWOD

Aim
2 Swift Actions
You can take two consecutive swift actions in the same round to more care-
fully line up a ranged attack. When you do so, you ignore all cover bonuses
to your target's Reflex Defense on your next attack. You still must have line
of sight to the target, however.

You lose the benefits of aiming if you lose line of sight to your target or
if you take any other action before making your attack.

Careful Shot: If you have the Careful Shot feat (page 82), you gain a +1
bonus on your ranged attack roll when you take the time to aim first.

Deadeye: If you have the Deadeye feat (page 84), you deal extra damage
when you take the time to aim first.

Catch a Second Wind

Asa swift action, you can catch a second wind (see Second Wind, page 146).
You can only catch a second wind once per day. Only heroic characters can
catch a second wind; nonheroic characters, objects, devices, and vehicles
cannot.

Extra Second Wind: This feat (described on page 85) allows a heroic
character to catch a second wind one extra time per day (but never more
than once in a single encounter). A nonheroic character that takes the Extra
Second Wind feat can catch a second wind once per day.

Drop an Item

Dropping an item is a swift action (but picking one up is a move action).
You can drop an item so that it falls on the ground in your fighting space or
lands in an adjacent square.

Fall Prone
Falling into a prone position requires a swift action.

Acrobatics: If you are trained in the Acrobatics skill (see page 62), you
can fall prone as a free action with a successful DC 15 Acrobatics check.

Recover

3 Swift Actions

You can spend three swift actions in the same round or across consecutive
rounds to move +1 step on the condition track (see Conditions, page 148).
You cannot use the recover action while affected by a persistent condition
(see Persistent Conditions, page 149).

Switch Weapon Mode

Some weapons have multiple weapon modes. Examples include blaster pistols,
which have both a lethal setting and a stun setting, and blaster carbines,
which have both a single-shot mode and an autofire mode. Switching to
another weapon mode takes a swift action.

FULL-ROUND ACTIONS
A full-round action consumes all of your effort during a given round, effec-
tively replacing all other actions on your turn. A full-round action can't
span multiple rounds; for example, you cannot perform a full-round action
that replaces your move action and swift action in the first round and your
standard action in the following round.

Full-round actions include the following:

Coup de Grace

Asa full-round action, you can use a melee weapon to deliver a coup de grace
to a helpless creature or droid. You can also use a ranged weapon, provided
you are adjacent to the target. You automatically score a critical hit, dealing
double damage. A defender reduced to 0 hit points by the coup de grace dies
instantly, or, in the case of a droid, is destroyed. An unconscious or disabled
defender hit by a coup de grace also dies or is destroyed instantly.

You can't deliver a coup de grace against a vehicle or object.

Full Attack

As a full-round action, you can make more than one attack. To gain extra
attacks, you must be wielding two weapons, wielding a double weapon,
or using a special ability that grants extra attacks. When making multiple
attacks, you may resolve your attacks in any order desired, declaring the
target of each attack immediately before making the attack roll. Extra attacks
granted from different sources are cumulative. Any penalties associated with
gaining an extra attack apply to all attacks that character makes until the
start of his next turn.

Attacking with Two Weapons: As a full-round action, a character armed
with two weapons can attack once with each weapon, but the character takes
a -10 penalty on all attacks for the round. This penalty assumes that the char-
acter is proficient with the weapon in hand; apply an additional -5 penalty
on the attack roll if the character is not proficient with the weapon.

A character armed with three or more weapons still only gains one extra
attack, but that character may choose which weapon it wishes to use for
this extra attack each round.

Attacking with a Double Weapon: As a full-round action, a character
armed with a double weapon (such as a double-bladed lightsaber) can
attack once with each end of the weapon, but the character takes a -10
penalty on all attacks for the round. This penalty assumes that the char-
acter is proficient with the weapon; apply an additional -5 penalty on the
attack roll if the character is not proficient with the weapon. (A character
who chooses to attack with only one end of a double weapon can do so as
a standard action.)

Dual Weapon Mastery: The Dual Weapon Mastery feats (see page 84)
reduce the -10 penalty on attack rolls when fighting with two weapons


--- Page 156 ---
or both ends of a double weapon. A character with all three Dual Weapon ATTACKS OF OPPORTUNITY
Mastery feats negates the =10 penalty entirely. If an enemy moves out of a square adjacent to you or performs an action that
Double Attack and Triple Attack: The Double Attack feat (see page 84) forces him to let down his guard, you can make a single, immediate attack

“ows a character to = one ae atrack ee a full oe but the against that enemy (even if you've already acted during the round). This is
character takes a -5 penalty on all attacks until the start of his next turn. called an attack of opportunity.

The Triple Attack feat (see page 89) allows a character to make one extra You can only make attacks of opportunity with melee weapons, natural
attack in addition to that granted by Double Attack, giving the character weapons, pistols, carbines, and any weapon with a folded stock. You may

an additional -5 penalty (total -10 penalty) on all attacks until the start of also make attacks of opportunity while unarmed if you have the Martial
his next turn. If the character is armed with more than one weapon, he may Arts teat

choose which weapon (or weapons) he will use to make each extra attack.

Run '

|
You can run as a full-round action, moving up to four times your speed in |
a straight line (or three times your speed in a straight line if wearing heavy
armor or carrying a heavy load). See the Endurance skill (page 66) for run- |

ning rules. Royal Guard B . f

|
/

1
:

SPECIAL COMBAT
RULES

This section describes various special rules that arise during combat. The
rules are presented alphabetically by topic.

MEeSLavHo

AREA ATTACKS
Certain weapons and effects, such as grenades, autofire weapons, or the Luke Skywalker
Force slam power, target all creatures in a given area instead of a single
target.

When you make an area attack, you make a single attack roll and compare
the result to the Reflex Defense of every target in the area. Creatures you
hit take full damage, and creatures you miss take half damage. VY

Autofire Weapons: A weapon set on autofire targets a 2-square-by-2-
square area (see Autofire, below, for more information).

Burst Radius: Grenades and explosives usually have a burst radius. When
you make an area attack with such a weapon, you must decide where to
center the burst before you make the attack roll. The center of a burst is
always on the corner of a square (at the “crosshairs").

Splash Weapons: Some weapons have a splash radius. When you make an
attack against a target, that target takes full damage if your attack roll equals
or exceeds the its Reflex Defense, and half damage if the attack misses. Also
compare your attack roll against the Reflex Defense of every target adjacent
to the primary target; these adjacent targets take half damage if the attack
hits or no damage if the attack misses.

Evasion: A character with the Evasion talent (see page 50) takes half
damage from a successful area attack and no damage from an area effect Dine Grywackun moves | e@uane ano ATTACKS ROYAL GUARD

GUARD B.

IVEWOSO

|

Royal Guard A
|

|
|
|
|


--- Page 157 ---
«i HSLedvreiD

AVEWOQD)

Provoking an Attack of Opportunity
Two actions can provoke attacks of opportunity:

e Moving out of a threatened square.
e Performing an action that distracts you from defending yourself and lets
your guard down while within a threatened square.

Most characters threaten the squares adjacent to them; larger characters
threaten all squares within their reach (see Reach, page 161). A creature only
threatens an area if it is armed with a natural weapon, a melee weapon, a
pistol, a carbine, or any weapon with a folded stock.

Moving Out of a Threatened Square: When you move out of a threat-
ened square, you generally provoke an attack of opportunity. You do not
provoke an attack of opportunity if you use the withdraw action (see page
153) or if you successfully tumble (see Acrobatics skill, page 62).

Performing an Action that Distracts You: Some actions, when per-
formed in a threatened area, provoke attacks of opportunity because they
make you divert your attention from the fight at hand. The following actions
provoke attacks of opportunity:

Making an unarmed attack without the Martial Arts | feat

Aiming

Loading a weapon

Picking up an item

Retrieving a stored item

Moving into an enemy's square

Using any skill that distracts you or forces you to drop your guard (GM's
determination)

Making an Attack of Opportunity

An attack of opportunity is a single free attack, and you can only make
one attack of opportunity per round. You don't have to make an attack of
opportunity if you don't want to. An attack of opportunity is always made
at your full attack bonus, minus any situational penalties you suffer.

You can't make an attack of opportunity if you're flat-footed.

Combat Reflexes: If you have the Combat Reflexes feat (page 83), you
can make more than one attack of opportunity during a round, and you may
make an attack of opportunity while flat-footed. However, you may only
make one attack of opportunity per provoking action. (Moving any number
of squares is treated as a single provoking action.)

AUTOFIRE

Any ranged weapon that has an autofire setting can be set on autofire as a
swift action. Table 8-4: Ranged Weapons (page 126) indicates whether or
not a specific weapon has an autofire setting. Some weapons, such as E-Web
repeating blasters, operate only in autofire mode.

Autofire is treated as an area attack (see Area Attack, page 155). You

, target a 2-square-by-2-square area, make a single attack roll at a -5 penalty,

and compare the result to the Reflex Defense of every creature in the area.
Creatures you hit take full damage, and creatures you miss take half damage,
Autofire consumes ten shots or slugs, and it can only be used if the weapon
has ten shots or slugs in it.

Autofire-Only Weapons: If you are using an autofire-only weapon,
you may brace your weapon by taking two swift actions in the same round
immediately before making your attack. When you brace an autofire-only
weapon, you take only a -2 penalty on your attack roll when making an
autofire attack or using the Burst Fire feat (see below).

Only heavy weapons, rifles, and pistols with an extended stock (see page
125) can be braced.

Burst Fire: The Burst Fire feat (see page 82) allows you to use a weapon
set on autofire against a specific creature instead of an area. You take a
-5 penalty on your attack roll but deal +2 dice of damage. Using burst fire
expends half as many shots or slugs (five instead of ten). This is not con-
sidered an area attack, so the damage cannot be reduced using the Evasion
talent (see below).

Evasion: A character with the Evasion talent (see page 50) takes half
damage from a successful autofire attack and no damage from an autofire
attack that misses his Reflex Defense (also see Burst Fire, above).

CONCEALMENT

Concealment encompasses all circumstances where nothing physically blocks
a blow or shot but where something interferes with an attacker's accuracy.
An attack that would normally hit might actually miss because the target
has concealment. A target might gain concealment from fog, smoke, poor
lighting, tall grass, foliage, or other effects that make it difficult to pinpoint
the target's location.

To determine whether your target has concealment from your ranged
attack, choose a corner of your square. If any line from this corner to any
corner of the target's square passes through a square or border that provides
concealment, the target has concealment. When making a melee attack
against an adjacent target, your target has concealment if his space is entirely
within an effect that grants concealment (such as a cloud of smoke).

If you attack a target with concealment, you take a -2 penalty on your
attack roll. Multiple sources of concealment (such as a defender in a fog at
night, with no illumination) do not apply additional penalties.

If you attempt to notice a target with concealment, you take a -5 penalty
on your Perception check.

Ignoring Concealment: Concealment isn't always effective. For instance,
a character with low-light vision ignores concealment from darkness (but not
total concealment; see below). Likewise, a character with darkvision ignores
all concealment from darkness (even total concealment).


--- Page 158 ---
Fog, smoke, foliage, and other visual obstructions work normally against
characters with darkvision or low-light vision.

Total Concealment
If you have line of effect to a target but not line of sight (for instance, if
he is in total darkness or if you're blinded), he is considered to have total
concealment from you. You can't attack an opponent that has total conceal-
ment, though you can attack into a square that you think he occupies. If
you attack a target with total concealment, you take a -5 penalty on your
attack roll. You can't make an attack of opportunity against an opponent
with total concealment, even if you know what square or squares the oppo-
nent occupies.

If you attempt to notice a target with total concealment, you take a -10
penalty on your Perception check.

DIAGRAM 9-2: ATTACK OF OPPORTUNITY II

MACE WINDU MOVES MORE THAN 1 SQUARE AND ATTACKS THE
RANCOR WITH HIS LIGHTSABER. MACE PROVOKES ATTACKS OF
OPPORTUNITY FROM BOTH TUSKEN RAIDERS (WHO ARE ARMED

COVER
Creatures and terrain features can provide cover against attacks. A creature
with cover gains a +5 cover bonus to its Reflex Defense, no matter how
many creatures and terrain features are between it and the attacker. Terrain
features that provide cover include trees, walls, vehicles, and cargo crates.

To determine whether an enemy has cover, choose a corner of the attack-
er's square. If any line from this corner to any corner of the target's square
passes through a barrier or any square occupied by a creature, the target has
cover. The target does not have cover if the line runs along or touches the
edge of a wall or other square that would otherwise provide cover.

An adjacent enemy never has cover.

Big Creatures and Cover: Any creature with a fighting space larger than
1 square determines cover against melee attacks slightly differently than
smaller creatures. Such a creature can choose any square that it occupies to
determine whether an opponent has cover against its melee attacks. Similarly,

|, Tusken RaiderA

Be

WITH GAFFI STICKS) AS HE MOVES OUT OF THEIR THREATENED
SQUARES. HE ALSO PROVOKES AN ATTACK OF OPPORTUNITY FROM
THE RANCOR AS HE MOVES THROUGH ITS THREATENED AREA (THE
RANCOR HAS REACH).

<x) HSldvHoS



--- Page 159 ---
=)

“! HSiavHo

AVSEWeOS)

when making a melee attack against such a creature, you can pick any of the
squares it occupies to determine whether it has cover against you.

Cover and Attacks of Opportunity: You can't make an attack of oppor-
tunity against an opponent with cover relative to you.

Cover and Stealth Checks: You can use cover to make a Stealth check.
Without cover, you usually need concealment (see above) to make a Stealth
check.

Low Objects and Cover: Low objects provide cover to creatures in those
squares. However, the attacker ignores low objects in its own fighting space and
adjacent squares. Low objects in the attacker's space and in adjacent squares
don't provide cover to enemies; essentially, the attacker shoots over them.

Improved Cover

In some cases, cover may provide a greater bonus to Reflex Defense. For
instance, a character peering around a corner or through a narrow aperture
has even better cover than a character standing behind a low wall ora land-
speeder. In such situations, double the normal cover bonus to Reflex Defense,
(+10 instead of +5). A creature with improved cover takes no damage from
area attacks that fail to hit its Reflex Defense. Furthermore, improved cover
provides a +5 bonus on Stealth checks.

The GM may impose other penalties or restrictions to attacks depend-
ing on the details of the cover. For example, to strike effectively through a
gun port, you need to use a long thrusting weapon, such as a lightsaber. A
vibro-ax just isn't going to get through a narrow slit.

Total Cover

If you don't have line of effect to your target (for instance, if he is completely
behind a high wall), he is considered to have total cover from you. You can't
make an attack against a target that has total cover.

DAMAGE REDUCTION (DR)

A creature or object with damage reduction (DR) ignores a certain amount
of damage from every attack. The amount of damage it ignores is always
indicated; for example, an object with DR 10 ignores the first 10 points of
damage from each attack.

Damage reduction is sometimes bypassed by one or more specific damage
types (noted after the DR value). For example, a creature with DR 5/energy
ignores 5 points of damage from any source except one that deals energy
damage (such as from a blaster). Similarly, a creature with DR 10/piercing
or slashing ignores 10 points of damage from any source except one that
deals piercing or slashing damage.

Certain talents grant damage reduction. When a character with multiple
types of damage reduction takes damage, use whichever damage reduction
value most benefits the character, based on the type of damage. For example,
if a character with DR 1 and DR 10/energy is struck by a blaster, it's better
for the character to apply his DR 1 against the attack (since DR 10/energy
is bypassed by blaster).

Lightsabers: Lightsaber ignore damage reduction unless specifically
noted otherwise.

DIAGONAL MOVEMENT
Moving diagonally costs double. When moving or counting along a diagonal
path, each diagonal counts as 2 squares, as shown in Diagram 9-3. If a char-
acter moves diagonally through low objects or difficult terrain, the cost of
movement doubles twice (that is, each square counts as 4 squares).

A character can't move diagonally past the corner or end of a wall that
extends to a grid corner.


--- Page 160 ---
DIFFICULT TERRAIN
Broken ground, buckled deck plating, and similar obstacles are collectively
referred to as difficult terrain. It costs twice as much to move into a square
containing difficult terrain. Creatures of Large size and bigger must pay the
extra cost for moving across difficult terrain if any part of their fighting
space moves into such a square.

Difficult terrain does not block line of sight or provide cover.

ENCUMBRANCE AND SPEED
Wearing medium or heavy armor or carrying a heavy load reduces your
character's speed to three-quarters normal (4 squares if your base speed is
6 squares, or 3 squares if your base speed is 4 squares). While wearing heavy
armor or carrying a heavy load, you can run at triple your speed.

A character with a fly speed cannot fly while carrying a heavy load.

FIGHTING SPACE

The squares that a creature occupies on the battle map are collectively
referred to as its fighting space. Small and Medium creatures (including
most characters) have a fighting space of 1 square. Large creatures have
a fighting space of 4 squares (2 squares on a side). Huge creatures have a
fighting space of 9 squares (3 squares on a side). Gargantuan and Colossal
creatures have much larger fighting spaces.

FLANKING
If you are making a melee attack against an opponent and you have an ally
on the other side of the opponent so that the opponent is directly between
the two of you, you are flanking that opponent. You gain a +2 flanking
bonus on your melee attack roll. See Diagrams 9-4 and 9-5 for examples
of flanking.

You don't gain a flanking bonus when making a ranged attack.

HELPLESS OPPONENTS
Ahelpless opponent—one who is bound, sleeping, unconscious, or otherwise
at your mercy—is an easy target. You can sometimes approach a target that
isunaware of your presence, get adjacent to it, and treat it as helpless. If the
target is in combat or some other tense situation, and therefore in a state of
acute awareness and readiness, or if the target can use its Dexterity bonus
toimprove its Reflex Defense, then that target can't be considered unaware.
further, any reasonable precautions taken by a target—including stationing
bodyguards, placing its back to a wall, or being able to make Perception
checks—also precludes catching that target unaware and helpless.
Attacking a Helpless Opponent: A melee attack against a helpless
opponent gains a +5 bonus on the attack roll (equivalent to attacking a
prone target). A ranged attack gets no special bonus. In addition, a helpless
opponent can't add its Dexterity bonus (if any) to its Reflex Defense. In

fact, its Dexterity score is treated as if it were 0, so its Dexterity modifier
to Reflex Defense is -5.

ION DAMAGE

lon pistols and ion rifles emit powerful bursts of electrostatic energy that
can disable droids, vehicles, and electrical devices in much the same way
that stun weapons can incapacitate living creatures.

When you make a successful attack with a weapon that deals ion
damage, first subtract half of the ion damage from the target's hit points.
Creatures that do not have cybernetic prosthetics are singed by the ion
energy but suffer no other ill effects. Droids, vehicles, electronic devices,

DIAGRAM 9-3: MOVEMENT

MOVING DIAGONALLY COSTS DOUBLE. A CHARACTER CAN'T MOVE
DIAGONALLY PAST A CORNER OR END OF A WALL. MOVING
THROUGH LOW OBVECTS ALSO COST DOUBLE. IF A CHARACTER
MOVES DIAGONALLY THROUGH LOW OBJECTS, THE COST OF
MOVEMENT DOUBLES TWICE.

Ki HSidvHo

AVYEWOS)



--- Page 161 ---
x) HSLlavH

AVEWO)

and cybernetically enhanced creatures may suffer additional effects, as
noted below:

e Ifthe ion damage reduces the target's current hit points to 0, the target
moves -5 steps on the condition track and is either knocked unconscious
or disabled (see Falling Unconscious, page 147).

© lf the ion damage (before being halved) equals or exceeds the target's
damage threshold, the target moves -2 steps on the condition track.

LINE OF SIGHT
A character can target an enemy that he can see, which is to say, any enemy
within his line of sight. Draw an imaginary line from any point in the attacker's

Super Battle Droid

DIAGRAM 9-4: FLANKING I

ANAKIN SKYWALKER AND OBI-WAN KENOBI! ARE FLANKING THE
SUPER BATTLE DROID. THEY EACH GAIN A +2 FLANKING BONUS
ON MELEE ATTACKS AGAINST THE DROID.

fighting space to any point in the target's fighting space. If the player who
controls the attacking character can draw that line without touching a
square that provides total cover (a wall, closed door, or similar barrier) or
total concealment (thick smoke, total darkness, or anything else that prevents
visibility), that character has line of sight to the target.

A line that nicks a corner or runs along a wall does not provide line of
sight. Other characters and creatures, low objects, difficult terrain, and pits
do not block line of sight.

Line of Effect: Line of effect works just like line of sight, but it ignores
squares that provide total concealment. For example, a character who is blind
or in total darkness doesn't have line of sight to any target, but that character
has line of effect to any target that doesn't have total cover.

DIAGRAM 9-S: FLANKING II

KI-ADI-MUND!I AND AGEN KOLAR ARE FLANKING THE DWARF
SPIDER DROID. THEY EACH GAIN A +2 FLANKING BONUS ON MELEE
ATTACKS AGAINST THE DROID.


--- Page 162 ---
MOVING THROUGH
OCCUPIED SQUARES
Sometimes you can pass through an occupied square.

Ally: You can move through a square occupied by any character, creature,
or droid that doesn't consider you an enemy.

Dead or Unconscious Enemy: You can move through a square occupied
by an enemy that doesn't present an obstacle, such as one who is dead,
unconscious, or disabled.

Much Larger or Smaller Enemy: Any character can move through a
space occupied by an enemy three or more size categories larger or smaller
than the moving character.

Tumbling: A character trained in Acrobatics can attempt to tumble
through an enemy's fighting space (see the Acrobatics skill, page 62).

PRONE TARGETS

Various attacks, talents, feats, and Force powers can knock a character prone.
A prone character takes a -5 penalty on melee attack rolls. Melee attacks
made against a prone character gain a +5 bonus, while ranged attacks made
against a prone character take a —5 penalty. Being prone may also give a
character total cover instead of normal cover (for example, being prone
behind a low wall), subject to the GM's discretion.

REACH

Acreature's reach determines the distance it can reach when making a melee
attack. A creature threatens all squares within its reach. Small and Medium
characters have a reach of 1 square, which means they can make melee
attacks only against targets in adjacent squares. Larger creatures tend to
have a greater reach and, consequently, a bigger threatened area.

Bigger Creatures: A creature with greater-than-normal reach (more
than 1 square) can still attack opponents directly next to it. A creature with
greater than normal reach usually gets an attack of opportunity against an
opponent when the opponent approaches it, because the opponent must
enter and move within its threatened area before making a melee attack.

Smaller Creatures: A Fine, Diminutive, or Tiny creature must be in
your space to attack you; moving into your square provokes an attack of
opportunity. You can attack into your own space if you need to with a melee
attack (but not a ranged attack), so you can attack very small opponents
normally.

SHIELD RATING (SR)

Some droids, devices, and vehicles have a shield rating (SR). Whenever a
target with SR takes damage from an attack, reduce the damage by the
shield rating. The remaining damage (if any) is dealt to the target's hit points,
subtracting damage reduction normally.

Shield Damage: If the damage dealt by an attack exceeds the target's
SR, reduce the shield rating by 5. This reduction is cumulative, so a target's
shield rating can eventually be reduced to zero. A character may recharge the
shields of a device or vehicle by spending three swift actions on the same or
consecutive rounds to make a DC 20 Mechanics check; if the check succeeds,
the target's SR improves by 5 points (up to its normal maximum). A droid
may recharge its own shields by spending three swift actions on the same or
consecutive rounds to make a DC 20 Endurance check; if the check succeeds,
its current shield rating improves by 5 points (up to its normal maximum).

SHOOTING OR THROWING

A MBLEE

If you shoot a ranged weapon or throw a weapon at an opponent that is adja-

cent to one or more of your allies, you take a -5 penalty on your attack roll.

This penalty accounts for the fact that you're trying not to hit your allies.
Precise Shot: If you have the Precise Shot feat (page 87), you don't take

this penalty.

INTO

SPECIAL INITIATIVE ACTIONS
Usually you act as soon as you can in combat, but sometimes you want to act
later, at a better time, or in response to the actions of someone else.

Delay

By choosing to delay, you take no action when your turn in the initiative
order arrives. Instead, you act normally at whatever later initiative point you
decide to act. When you delay, you voluntarily reduce your own initiative
count for the rest of the encounter. When your new, lower initiative count
comes up later in the same round, you can act normally. You can specify this
new initiative result or just wait until some time later in the round and act
at that time, thus fixing your new initiative result at that point.

Delaying is useful if you need to see what your friends or enemies are
going to do before deciding what to do yourself. The price you pay is lost
initiative. You never get back the time you spend waiting to see what's
going to happen.

Example: Deel and Vor'en approach a locked hatch, behind which they
expect to encounter a crime boss and his thugs. Vor'en's initiative count is
22, but he delays. He wants to open fire on the crime boss with his heavy
blaster rifle, so he delays. On initiative count 14, Deel uses his Mechan-
ics skill to unlock and open the door. Now Vor'en can move through the
doorway and fire a shot at the crime boss, but his initiative is reduced to
13 (just after Deel’s initiative of 14). For the rest of the battle, Vor'en acts
on initiative count 13.

Multiple Characters Delaying: If multiple characters delay their actions,
the one with the highest Initiative check modifier has the advantage. If two
or more delaying characters both want to act on the same initiative count,
the one with the highest Initiative check modifier gets to go first.

Mi HStiavHiga

AVEWOO)



--- Page 163 ---
mi

AVEWem

HSicevHo

Ready

Readying lets you prepare to take an action later, after your turn is over but
before your next turn has begun. You can ready a single standard action or
move action. To do so, specify the standard action or move you will take and
the circumstances under which you will take it. Then, any time before your

Stormtrooper A

Han Solo

DIAGRAM 9-6: LINE OF SIGHT

TWO CHARACTERS HAVE LINE OF SIGHT TO EACH OTHER IF
THERE'S AT LEAST ONE CLEAR LINE BETWEEN THEIR SPACES. A
LINE THAT NICKS A CORNER OR RUNS ALONG A WALL DOES NOT
PROVIDE LINE OF SIGHT. A CHARACTER NEEDS LINE OF SIGHT TO
AN ENEMY TO ATTACK THAT ENEMY. HAN SOLO HAS LINE OF
SIGHT TO STORMTROOPER A, BUT NOT TO STORMTROOPER B.

next turn, you may take the readied action in response to those circumstances
(assuming they occur).

Initiative Consequences of Readying: The count on which you took
your readied action becomes your new initiative result. If you come to your
next action and have not yet performed your readied action, you don't get
to take the readied action (though you can ready the same action again). If
you take your readied action in the next round, before your regular action,
your initiative rises to that new point in the order of battle, and you do not
get your regular action in that round.

Example: Kelko and his friend Sia-Lan have just encountered a trio of
Tusken Raiders in the wilds of Tatooine. On initiative count 14, Kelko specifies
that he is going to fire his blaster at the first Raider that tries making an
attack. On count 10, Sia-Lan moves next to Kelko and readies an attack with
her lightsaber so that she can strike any foe that comes within 1 square of
her position. On count 7, the Tusken Raiders charge, brandishing their gaffi
sticks. As soon as the lead Raider raises his weapon, Kelko fires his blaster,
but misses. Next, Sia-Lan swings at the first Raider to reach her and drops
him. Other Raiders, however, reach Sia-Lan and attack her. From this point on,
both Kelko and Sia-Lan act on initiative count 7 (and before the Raiders).

SQUEEZING
Creatures of Large size and bigger can squeeze through small openings and
down narrow hallways that are at least half as wide as their fighting space,
provided they end their movement in an area that they can normally occupy.
Big droids and vehicles can't squeeze at all, unless they can compress their
frames to accommodate the tighter space.

Creatures of Large size or bigger cannot squeeze past enemies.

STUNNING
Sometimes you'd rather knock an enemy unconscious than kill him. That's why
many weapons have stun settings and why stun batons and stun grenades
are popular with law enforcement agencies throughout the galaxy.

Various melee weapons and blasters have a stun setting, and switching
a weapon to its stun setting (or resetting it to normal damage) is a swift
action. Some stun weapons, such as stun grenades, only have a stun setting.
Unless otherwise noted, the stun setting on a blaster weapon has a maximum
range of 6 squares (no range penalties).

Only creatures can be stunned. Droids, vehicles, and objects are immune
to stunning effects.

When you make a successful attack with a weapon that deals stun damage,
subtract half of the stun damage from the target's hit points. Additional effects
may occur as well, depending on the amount of damage dealt:

e Ifthe stun damage reduces the target's current hit points to 0, the target
moves -5 steps on the condition track and is knocked unconscious (see
Falling Unconscious, page 147).


--- Page 164 ---
¢ |f the stun damage (before being halved) equals or exceeds the target's
damage threshold, the target moves -2 steps on the condition track.

A creature knocked unconscious by a stunning effect does not die if it
rolls a natural 1 on its Constitution check to regain consciousness or if it fails
the check by 5 or more points. It simply remains unconscious.

DIAGRAM 9-7: COVER AND LINE OF SIGHT
ALINE THAT RUNS ALONG A WALL OR THAT NICKS A CORNER OF A
WALL DOES NOT PROVIDE COVER. STORMTROOPER A DOES NOT

UNARMED ATTACKS
Striking for damage with punches, kicks, and head butts is essentially like attack-
ing with a melee weapon. Unarmed attacks deal normal bludgeoning damage.
A Medium character normally deals 1d4 points of bludgeoning damage
(plus Strength modifier) with a successful unarmed attack; a Small character
deals 1d3 points of bludgeoning damage (plus Strength modifier). Certain
talents, feats, or special abilities may increase the damage a character deals
with his unarmed attacks.

| Stormtrooper A

|

Stormtrooper B

HAVE COVER FROM HAN SOLO. STORMTROOPER B DOES NOT
HAVE COVER FROM PRINCESS LEIA. HAN AND LEIA DO NOT HAVE
LINE OF SIGHT TO ONE ANOTHER.

Mi esiavHS

Q
@
x
,
4



--- Page 165 ---


--- Page 166 ---
~~, ia w= SS Se

/ehicles in the Star Wars universe run the gamut from ponderous armored
alkers and capital ships to agile airspeeders and starfighters. Despite this
ari ty, the basic purpose of all vehicles remains similar: moving passengers
‘one place to another. Of course, the places involved in this journey can
affect the form and function of the vehicle.

rules come into play whenever vehicles figure prominently on the
d—whether that battlefield happens to be on a planet's surface or
k void of space. The movement and combat rules presented here
types of vehicles, from planetary vehicles to starships.

nost respects, vehicles follow the same rules as characters, insofar as
ave movement, actions, and the capacity to take damage.

i ape ? “~~ These rules use two scales: character scale and starship scale. If the encoun-
ter involves both vehicles and characters on foot, use character scale. If the
scene involves vehicles only, use starship scale.

CHARACTER SCALE
Character scale is identical to the standard movement scale. Combat is carried
out on a grid in which each square equals 1.5 meters (about 5 feet).

In character scale, most vehicles are large enough to occupy multiple
squares on the battle grid. How many squares a vehicle occupies is determined
by the vehicle's size (and the same holds true for characters and creatures).
Vehicles of Colossal (frigate) size or greater are not placed on the battle map;
they are either off the map (perhaps providing fire support), or the battle
takes place inside them.

In character scale, more than one surface vehicle cannot occupy the
same space on the battle grid, and a collision occurs whenever a vehicle

- lisions, page 173).

STARSHIP SCALE
; In starship scale, each square of the grid is abstract, representing a variable

square.is hundreds or even thousands of meters wide. In starship scale, the
ae grid its Ifrepresents relative movement, not absolute movement, so several

<x HSiagvHo

"\enters a square occupied by a creature, obstacle, or other vehicle (see Col-

Pees:

te



--- Page 167 ---
x HesiaevHs

SSistHAAga,

lo so. However, the Starship Battles rules don't
Sleeisties to account for the presence of heroes

VEHICLE TYPES

The term "vehicle" encompasses both planetary vehicles (such as airspeeders,
landspeeders, and walkers) and starships (such as starfighters, space trans-
ports, and capital ships). The major difference between planetary vehicles
and starships is that planetary vehicles generally do not travel in the vacuum
of space. Rules that pertain only to planetary vehicles or starships are called
out specifically.

PLANETARY VEHICLES
Planetary vehicles are further subdivided into ground vehicles and air
vehicles.

Ground Vehicle: The most basic vehicles in the Star Wars universe, ground
vehicles only operate on (or very near) a planetary surface.

Speeder: Speeders are common sights on the technologically advanced
worlds. Equipped with repulsorlift drive technology, they hover above the
ground at a height of anywhere from a few centimeters to several meters
and can achieve remarkable speeds. Speeders ignore penalties for difficult
terrain.

Tracked: Tracked vehicles have treads or tracks looped around a large
number of wheels, providing great traction but making them less maneu-
verable at higher speeds—and extremely loud at any speed. Tracked vehicles
ignore penalties for difficult terrain and take half damage from collisions
with obstacles at least one size category smaller than them.

Walker: Walkers move about on two or more legs, literally walking over
the terrain. Walkers retain their balance by means of finely tuned gyroscopes
and offer a fairly smooth ride. They rely on even footing, however, and when
they topple, the results can be disastrous. Walkers ignore obstacles that are
three or more sizes smaller than them.

Wheeled: Wheeled vehicles move on one or more wheels (most com-
monly two to four). Faster and more maneuverable than tracked or walker
vehicles, wheels are a cheap alternative to repulsorlift technology for light
and fast vehicles.

Air Vehicle: Air vehicles generally operate above a planetary surface, but
within the planet's atmosphere.

Airspeeders: Airspeeders are repulsorlift vehicles that can travel any-
where up to about 300 kilometers above ground level, but they are incapable
of true space flight. Because they fly so high above the ground, they ignore
penalties for terrain or obstructions. Of all planetary vehicles, airspeeders
are the most maneuverable.

STARSHIPS

Starships are vehicles capable of interplanetary and interstellar travel. They
are further subdivided into starfighters, space transports, capital ships, and
space stations.

Starfighter: Starfighters are small, agile starships of Gargantuan size or
smaller. Though they can travel in atmosphere, they excel at space combat.
Starfighters can function with as few as one crewmember (the pilot).

Space Transport: Space transports are mid-size starships of Colossal or
Colossal (frigate) size with fewer than 200 hit points. Most space transports
are designed for moving passengers or cargo, but some are used as gunships,
drop ships, or assault shuttles.

VEHICLE SIZE

SIZE MODIFIER’ EXAMPLES

Colossal (station) -10 Executor-class Star Dreadnought,
Death Star

Colossal (cruiser) -10 Imperial-class Star Destroyer,
MC80 Mon Calamari cruiser

Colossal (frigate) -10 Corellian corvette (Tantive IV),
Nebulon-B frigate

Colossal -10 AT-AT, YT-1300 light freighter
(Millennium Falcon)

Gargantuan -5 AAT-1 repulsor tank, X-wing starfighter

Huge -2 AT-ST walker, TIE fighter

Large -1 Speeder bike, X-34 landspeeder

1 Apply this size modifier to the vehicle's Reflex Defense, as well as to Initiative
and Pilot checks made by the vehicle's occupants.


--- Page 168 ---
Capital Ship: Capital ships include all starships of Colossal (frigate) size
or larger. Capital ships usually carry hundreds if not thousands of crewmem-
bers and passengers, and some are large enough to house other capital ships
within their hangar bays. Some very large transports and colony ships fall
into this category despite not being designed for combat.

Space Station: Though not technically modes of transportation, space
stations have statistics like other starships. A space station can have a
population in the thousands or millions, depending on its size. Most space
stations are immobile, the Death Star being a notable exception.

VEHICLE COMBAT
STATISTICS

All vehicle statistics that are relevant to combat are described below.

VEHICLE SIZE
Vehicles use similar size categories as creatures, as shown on Table 10-1:
Vehicle Sizes. The Colossal size category is further subdivided to differentiate
particularly massive starships and space stations.

Avehicle's size modifier applies to the vehicle's Reflex Defense, as well as
to Initiative and Pilot checks made by the vehicle's occupants.

ATTACKS
Any vehicle equipped with weapons can make attacks against enemies within
range. An attack roll with a vehicle weapon is calculated as follows:

1d20 + base attack bonus + vehicle's Intelligence modifier + range
modifier

Base Attack Bonus: Use the base attack bonus of the gunner (which, in
some cases, may be the pilot).

Intelligence Modifier: A vehicle's computer improves the accuracy of the
vehicle's weapon systems, and the vehicle's Intelligence score measures the
quality of the computer.

Range Modifier: A vehicle weapon can attack a target at point blank, short,
medium, or long range. If you make a ranged attack against a target within
the weapon's point blank range, you take no penalty on the attack roll. Your
penalty on attack rolls increases to -2 at short range, -5 at medium range,
and -10 at long range (see Table 10-2: Vehicle Weapon Ranges).

Critical Hits
As in character combat, when you roll a natural 20 on your attack, you
automatically hit and deal double damage.

Automatic Misses
lf you roll a natural 1 on your attack, you automatically miss.

10
rT
Hi |e
ia
7) 18
Taba
x



--- Page 169 ---
x eaievHad

SeiaHaa

SHICGLE WEAPO
———-CHARACTER SCALE (IN SQUARES)

Pea Nuun suneh ounte |

——————STARSHIP SCALE (IN SQUARES)

WEAPON TYPE PT. BLANK SHORT MEDIUM LONG PT. BLANK SHORT MEDIUM LONG
Blaster cannon 0-120 121-240 241-600 601-1,200 0-1 2 3-4 5-8

lon cannon 0-300 301-600 601-1,500 1,501-3,000 0-2 3-4 5-10 , 11-20
Laser cannon 0-150 151-300 301-750 751-1,500 0-1 2 3-5 6-10
Missile or torpedo 0-450 451-900 901-2,250 2,251-4,500 0-3 4-6 7-15 16-30
Point-defense' 0-150 151-300 301-750 751-1,500 0-1 2 : 3-5 6-10
Tractor beam! 0-150 151-300 301-750 751-1,500 0-1 2 3-5 6-10
Turbolaser' 0-600 601-1,200 1,201-3,000 3,001-6,000 0-4 5-8 9-20 — 21-40

1 This weapon can only be mounted on a vehicle of Colossal (frigate) size or larger.

DAMAGE

When you hit with a vehicle weapon, you deal damage according to the type
of weapon (listed in each vehicle's statistics). Damage dealt by a vehicle
weapon is calculated as follows:

Weapon damage x damage multiplier

Damage Multiplier: After rolling the weapon damage dice, multiply the
result by the listed damage multiplier. For example, when you fire a vehicle
weapon that deals 6d10x2 damage, roll 6d10 and multiply the result by 2.

DEFENSES

A vehicle's defenses represent how difficult it is to hit or overload its systems.
Unlike characters, vehicles do not have a Will Defense. However, vehicles have
a Reflex Defense and a Fortitude Defense which are calculated as follows:

Reflex Defense = 10 + vehicle's Dexterity modifier + size modifier
+ armor bonus or pilot's heroic level
Fortitude Defense = 10 + vehicle's Strength modifier

Reflex Defense (Ref)
Whenever you make an attack against a vehicle, compare your attack roll to
the target's Reflex Defense (abbreviated "Ref"). If you equal or exceed the
vehicle's Reflex Defense, you hit it and deal damage.
Size Modifier: Use the vehicle's size modifier instead of your own when
calculating the vehicle's Reflex Defense (see Table 10-1: Vehicle Sizes).
Armor Bonus: Use the vehicle's armor bonus instead of your own when
calculating the vehicle's Reflex Defense. You may add your heroic level
instead of this armor bonus.

Dexterity Modifier: A vehicle's Dexterity modifier represents how well it
can move out of harm's way. If the pilot is flat-footed, or if the vehicle is
out of control or attacked by an undetected opponent, the vehicle loses its
Dexterity bonus to its Reflex Defense. If the vehicle is at a full stop, powered
down, or disabled, it is treated as if it has a Dexterity score of 0 (-5 penalty
to Reflex Defense).

Fortitude Defense (Fort)
Vehicles use their Fortitude Defense (abbreviated “Fort") to determine their
damage threshold (see below).

Strength Bonus: A vehicle's Strength bonus represents its overall tough-
ness and durability.

Hit POINTS

Vehicles have hit points, just like characters. Hit points are abstract, meant
to represent not only the vehicle's physical mass but also the robustness or
fragility of its systems.

Damage Threshold

Like creatures, vehicles have a damage threshold, calculated as follows:

Damage threshold = Fortitude Defense + size modifier

Just as in character combat,
It's assumed that the pilot is o
geous way possible durir
universe are quite mai



--- Page 170 ---
Size Modifier: Apply the following size modifiers to a vehicle's damage
threshold: Large, +5; Huge, +10; Gargantuan, +20; Colossal, +50; Colossal
(frigate), +100; Colossal (cruiser), +200; Colossal (station), +500.

If a vehicle takes damage from a single attack that equals or exceeds
its damage threshold, the vehicle moves -1 step on the condition track (see
Conditions, page 148). A vehicle pushed to the bottom of the condition
track is disabled and comes to a complete stop immediately. If the vehicle
was flying in a gravity well at the time it became disabled, it immediately
falls 150 meters (100 squares) plus another 300 meters (200 squares) every
round until it either hits the surface or is reactivated. Resolve falling damage
normally (see Falling Damage, page 255).

If a vehicle is reduced to 0 hit points by an attack that deals damage equal
to or greater than its damage threshold, it is destroyed. In addition, all of the
vehicle's occupants take half damage from the attack.

CREW COVER
Most vehicles provide at least some cover to their passengers. Passengers
gain a cover bonus to their Reflex Defense against any attacks that target
them instead of the vehicle. A vehicle can provide no cover, normal cover (+5
cover bonus), improved cover (+10 cover bonus), or full cover. You cannot
attack a target that has full cover.

The cover a vehicle provides to its passengers is included in its statistics
(see Vehicle Descriptions, page 174).

SPEED
Every vehicle has a speed, given in squares. The pilot may move a vehicle up
to its listed speed as a move action, and up to four times its speed with the
all-out movement action (see page 172).

Starships and airspeeders have a separate listing for their speed in star-
ship scale.

Maximum Velocity: This is the maximum speed a vehicle may move in
character scale. It is seldom relevant in combat because such speeds quickly
move the vehicle off the battle map and out of range.

CHARACTERS IN
VEHICLES

A character in a vehicle fills one of several possible roles, which determines
what the character can do. A character can fill several roles at once, but most
roles may only be filled by one character at a time. For example, an X-wing
pilot also acts as the vehicle's commander and gunner, while her astromech
droid usually acts as a copilot, shield operator, and engineer. On the other
hand, an Imperial-class Star Destroyer with thousands of crewmembers still
has only one pilot, one commander, and so forth. You can change roles from
round to round, but you can only start filling a particular role if no other
crewmember has filled that role since your last turn.

Pilot: The pilot of the vehicle controls its movement. Most vehicles have
only one position from where the vehicle can be piloted. Piloting a vehicle is,
at a minimum, a move action, which means that the pilot can do something
else with his standard action and swift action. A vehicle can have only one
pilot at one time. The pilot adds the vehicle's size modifier and Dexterity
modifier on all Initiative and Pilot checks.

Copilot: A copilot can help the pilot by using the aid another action (see
Aid Another, page 170). The copilot must be seated in a location where he can
see in front of the vehicle and advise the pilot (in most cases, this location
is the cockpit). Aiding the pilot is a standard action, leaving the copilot with
a move action and swift action each round to do something else. A vehicle
can have only one copilot at a time.

Gunner: Most military vehicles and some civilian vehicles have built-in
weapons. Any weapon not controlled by the pilot or co-pilot requires a gunner
to operate. A vehicle can have as many gunners as it has gunner positions.

Commander: The commander coordinates the various crewmembers and
stations aboard the vehicle, analyzes the battle as it unfolds, and looks for
weaknesses in the enemy's vehicles and tactics. A vehicle can only have one
commander at a time.

System Operator: The system operator manages the vehicle's shields,
sensors, and communications. A vehicle can only have one system operator
at a time.

Engineer: The chief engineer keeps the ship running even as it takes
debilitating damage to its systems, diverting power from overloaded circuits
to keep the ship functional. The engineer also leads efforts to repair damage
to the hull between battles. A vehicle can only have one chief engineer at
a time.

Other Crew: Other crewmembers can fill many supporting roles, coordi-
nating troops or starfighters, administering medical care, guarding sensitive
areas, and providing general maintenance. These crewmembers can assist
others on some skill checks; for example, the members of a repair team may
assist the chief engineer in his duties on capital ships.

Passenger: All other personnel aboard the vehicle are considered pas-
sengers. Passengers have no specific role in the vehicle's operation but may
take actions aboard the vehicle or replace crewmembers as needed.

STARTING THE BATTLE

Unless noted otherwise, climbing aboard a vehicle is a move action, and
powering up a vehicle requires a second move action.

INITIATIVE

There are two options for determining initiative in vehicle combat. First,
each character can make a separate Initiative check. This is probably the
best method if most or all characters are aboard the same vehicle, but it can
result in a lot of delayed or readied actions as passengers wait for pilots to

<x eSLavHo

i



--- Page 171 ---
perform maneuvers. An alternative is to make an Initiative check for each
vehicle, using the pilot's Initiative check modifier. This is particularly appropri-
ate when characters are in separate vehicles, since it allows everyone aboard
the same vehicle to act more or less simultaneously.

Special: If you are trained in the Pilot skill (see page 71), you can choose
to make a Pilot check instead of an Initiative check to determine your place
in the initiative order. In any event, you must apply the vehicle's size modifier
to your check (see Table 10-1: Vehicle Sizes, page 166).

VEHICLE COMBAT
ACTIONS

The types of actions you can take during a single turn don't change when
you're aboard a vehicle.

Some of the actions described below can only be performed by particular
crewmembers. In this case, the eligible crewmembers are listed in parentheses
following the action's name.

STANDARD ACTIONS
A standard action could be any one of the following:

Aid Another
As a standard action, you can aid an ally's next skill check, ability check,
or attack roll.

Aiding a Skill Check or Ability Check: You can help another character
achieve success on her skill check or ability check by making the same kind
of skill check or ability check in a cooperative effort. If you roll a 10 or higher
on your check, the character you are helping gains a +2 bonus on her check.
You can't take 10 on a skill check or ability check to aid another. Only the
copilot can assist on Pilot checks, and only the commander can assist on Use
Computer checks. Any crewmember can aid any other skill check.

Aiding an Attack Roll: In combat, you can aid another character's attack
by providing improved targeting data or by coordinating that attack with
other vehicle actions. A gunner can grant a +2 bonus on another character's
attack roll by making an attack against a Reflex Defense of 10.

A sensor operator can grant a +2 bonus on another character's attack
roll by making a DC 10 Use Computer check.

Avehicle's commander can grant a +2 bonus on another character's attack
roll by making a DC 10 Knowledge (tactics) check.

Attack with Melee Weapon
With a melee weapon, you can strike any enemy in a square you can threaten.
You can only threaten squares within your reach from the vehicle's space, and
you don't threaten spaces around the vehicle at all if it grants total cover. For
example, a Jedi on a speeder bike could attack targets adjacent to the bike
with his lightsaber, but the same Jedi couldn't do so while inside an AT-AT.
You can't make a melee attack in starship scale, except within the confines
of the vehicle you occupy. it

Attack with Ranged Weapon
With a ranged weapon, you can throw or shoot at any target within your
line of sight, as long as your vehicle does not grant you total cover. For
example, clone troopers can fire their blasters at targets outside a LAAT/i
gunship as long as the ship's doors are open. Range modifiers apply normally
for your weapon.

You cannot make a personal ranged attack in starship scale, except within
the confines of the vehicle you occupy.

Attack with Vehicle Weapon

Gunner Only

Any gunners (including the pilot, if there are pilot-operated weapons on the

vehicle) can make an attack with their vehicle weapon as a standard action.

The maximum range and the range modifiers of a vehicle weapon attack

depend on the weapon used (see Table 10-2: Vehicle Weapon Ranges).
Capital Ships: Capital ship weapons are designed for long-range

bombardment against large or immobile targets, and they have difficulty


--- Page 172 ---
tracking very small enemies. When attacking a target of less than Colossal
size, a vehicle that is Colossal (frigate) size or larger takes a -20 penalty on
its attack rolls. Point-defense weapons are specifically designed to attack
smaller targets and do not take these penalties.

Trained Pilot: If you are trained in the Pilot skill, you gain a +2 bonus
on all attacks made with any vehicle weapon identified as being crewed by
the pilot.

Attack Run

Pilot Only

As a standard action, you can move up to your vehicle's speed (minimum 2
squares) in a straight line through unobstructed terrain directly toward your
target, and then make an attack with a vehicle weapon at that target at the
end of your movement. You gain a +2 bonus on your attack roll and take a
-2 penalty to your vehicle's Reflex Defense until the start of your next turn.
In starship scale, you cannot make an attack run through squares occupied
by enemies, but allies do not hinder your attack run.

Dogfight

Pilot Only

As a standard action, the pilot of an airspeeder or starfighter can initiate a
dogfight against an enemy airspeeder or starfighter in an adjacent square
(starship scale). Make a Pilot check at a -5 penalty, opposed by the enemy's
Pilot check. If you succeed, you and the target vehicle are engaged in a
dogfight.

Consequences of Dogfighting: A vehicle engaged in a dogfight must
select the dogfight action on every turn, and it cannot move out of its cur-
rent square until it disengages (see below). While engaged in a dogfight, you
cannot attack any target outside the dogfight.

Firing into a Dogfight: If another vehicle fires into a dogfight, it takes a
-5 penalty on its attack roll unless the gunner has the Precise Shot feat.

Attacking in a Dogfight: Make an opposed Pilot check as a standard
action. If you win the opposed check, you may make a single attack with a
vehicle weapon as a swift action. If you fail, you cannot attack the target,
and any gunners on your vehicle take a -5 penalty on any attack rolls they
make until your next turn.

Disengaging from a Dogfight: Make an opposed Pilot check as a move
action. If you win the opposed check, you successfully disengage from the

dogfight and may move a number of squares equal to your speed. If you
fail, you remain in the dogfight, and any gunners on your vehicle take a -5
penalty on any attack rolls they make until your next turn.

Attack of Opportunity: If an enemy starfighter tries to move through
your square or an adjacent square, you may attempt to initiate a dogfight
as an attack of opportunity. If successful, the enemy starfighter must stop
moving.

Fight Defensively

Pilot Only

As a standard action, you can concentrate more on protecting your vehicle
than hurting your enemies. You and all gunners on your vehicle take a -5
penalty on your attack rolls and your vehicle gains a +2 dodge bonus to its
Reflex Defense until the start of your next turn. If you choose to make no
attacks, your vehicle gains a +5 dodge bonus to its Reflex Defense and all
gunners on your vehicle take a -10 penalty on their attack rolls until the
start of your next turn.

Trained Pilot: If you are trained in the Pilot skill, your vehicle instead
gains a +5 dodge bonus to its Reflex Defense when you and your gunners
take a -5 penalty on attack rolls, or a +10 dodge bonus if you choose to
make no attacks on your turn.

MOVE ACTIONS
Move actions include the following:

Move

Pilot Only

You can move up to your vehicle's speed. The only restriction for vehicle
movement is that you cannot reenter a square you just left.

SwiF-t ACTIONS
Swift actions include the following:

Aim

Gunner Only

Just as in character combat, you can aim before making a ranged attack
(see Aim, page 154).

Hf, fo &
Hh iba, ag

M Hei vHS

Ss ioirhiga



--- Page 173 ---
M HSitievHsS

"
x
9
W
@

Full Stop
Pilot Only
If you haven't already used a move action or full-round action to move your
vehicle this turn, you can spend a swift action to bring your vehicle to a full
stop. After that, the vehicle is considered stationary.

You cannot bring a vehicle to a full stop if you used all-out movement
(see below) on your last turn.

Increase Vehicle Speed

Pilot Only

If you are trained in the Pilot skill, you may make a DC 20 Pilot check as a
swift action to push your vehicle beyond its normal limits. (You can't take
10 on this check.) If the check fails, your vehicle's speed does not increase,
and your vehicle moves -1 step on the condition track (see Conditions, page
148). If you succeed, your vehicle's speed increases by 1 square until the
start of your next turn. For every 5 points by which you exceed the DC, your
vehicle's speed increases by an additional 1 square.

Raise or Lower Shields

System Operator Only

By spending a swift action, you can activate or deactivate the shields on
your vehicle. Shields are generally kept inactive in noncombat situations to
reduce strain on the vehicle's systems, and raising shields is often perceived
as evidence of hostile intent, so many commanders prefer to keep their shields
down unless they are expecting trouble.

Recharge Shields

System Operator Only; 3 swift actions

By spending three swift actions during the same turn or on consecutive turns,
you can make a DC 20 Mechanics check to increase your current shield rating
by 5, up to the vehicle's normal maximum.

Reroute Power

Engineer Only; 3 swift actions

By spending three swift actions during the same turn or on consecutive turns,
you can make a DC 20 Mechanics check to move your vehicle +1 step on the
condition track (see Conditions, page 148).

FULL-ROUND ACTIONS
Full-round actions include the following:

All-Out Movement

Pilot Only

As a full-round action, you can move up to four times your vehicle's speed.
All of this movement must be in a straight line, and you can't avoid collisions

while doing so (see Avoid Collision, page 173). Your vehicle loses its Dexterity
bonus to Reflex Defense until the beginning of your next turn.

You can't use all-out movement unless you moved on your last turn.

Because most power is diverted to the engines when using all-out move-
ment, gunners on board your vehicle cannot attack until the start of your
next turn.

Maximum Velocity (character scale only): If you use all-out movement
on your turn, you may move up to your vehicle's maximum velocity with
all-out movement on your next turn. If you move your vehicle's maximum
velocity, you must either continue moving at the vehicle's maximum velocity
or use all-out movement as your action on the following turn.

Full Attack

Gunner Only

If you are capable of making more than one attack (because you have the
Double Attack feat or a similar ability), you must make a full attack to get
those extra attacks. A pilot who spends at least a move action every round
moving his vehicle cannot make a full attack action unless the vehicle has
already been brought to a full stop.

Ram

Pilot Only

As a full-round action, you can attempt to ram a target by moving your
vehicle into the target's fighting space. You must have sufficient movement
to reach the target's fighting space, and the ram is treated as an area effect.
You can use your vehicle to ram just about anything, including another
vehicle, a creature, or a structure.

Make a Pilot check at a -10 penalty against the target's Reflex Defense.
If the check succeeds, your vehicle, the target, and all passengers aboard
vehicles involved in the collision (including you) take the amount of
damage listed in Table 10-3: Collision Damage. Assuming you're alive and
conscious, you can continue moving through the target's fighting space
if your vehicle has any movement left. Otherwise, your vehicle is pushed
out of the target's fighting space and into the nearest available squares,
and your turn ends.

If your Pilot check fails, your vehicle, the target, and all passengers aboard
vehicles involved in the collision (including you) take half damage. In addi-
tion, your vehicle is pushed out of the target's fighting space and into the
nearest available squares, at which point your turn ends.

All-Out Movement: If the colliding vehicle is moving all-out or moving
at maximum velocity (see All-Out Movement, above), double the damage
caused by the collision.

Vehicular Evasion: If you have the Vehicular Evasion talent (page 207),
you can reduce or negate the damage your vehicle and its passengers take
when rammed by another vehicle.


--- Page 174 ---
REACTIONS
As always, a character may make any number of reactions during a round.
Reactions include the following:

Avoid Collision
Pilot Only
Any time your vehicle is subject to a collision, you can make a DC 15 Pilot
check as a reaction. If you succeed on the check, all targets involved in the
collision take half damage (see Collisions, below, for more information).
You can't attempt to avoid a collision when you intentionally ram a target
(see Ram, above).
Starship Scale: Collisions are easier to avoid at starship scale. If you
succeed on the Pilot check to avoid a collision in starship scale, no collision
occurs.

SPECIAL VEHICLE
COMBAT RULES

Vehicles have a few additional rules during combat that are different from
those used with characters.

AREA ATTACKS
Except as noted here, area attacks work the same for vehicles as they do for
characters.

Starship Scale: Because of the size of each square compared to the size of
starships, area attacks (including autofire, burst radius weapons, and splash
weapons) are resolved as attacks on a single target in starship scale unless
the weapon is specifically listed as having a starship-scale area attack.

AUTOFIRE
If your vehicle weapon is capable of autofire, you can use it to make an area
attack in character scale, just as in character combat.

Strafe Attacks: Instead of attacking a 2-square-by-2-square area, air-
speeders and starfighters may attack a number of squares in a straight line
as they fly over them. Doing this requires the attack run action (see page
171), and the area attack applies to a straight line 1 square wide and 5 to
10 squares long. You take a penalty to your attack roll equal to the number
of squares included in the area attack.

You cannot make a strafe attack in starship scale.

COLLISIONS

A collision occurs whenever your vehicle moves into a space occupied by
a creature, structure, another vehicle, or hazard (such as an asteroid), or
whenever such things move into your vehicle's fighting space. A collision is
treated as an area attack (see Area Attacks, page 155). You can reduce or

negate the damage from a collision as a reaction by succeeding at a DC 15
Pilot check (see Avoid Collision, above).

Ramming Vehicles: When the source of the collision is a ramming vehicle,
the pilot of the ramming vehicle makes a Pilot check (instead of an attack
roll) and compares the result to the Reflex Defense of the target. If the check
succeeds, the ramming vehicle, the target, and all passengers aboard vehicles
involved in the collision take the amount of damage listed on Table 10-3:
Collision Damage. If the check fails, reduce the damage by half.

Mobile Hazards: When the source of the collision is a mobile hazard of
Large size or greater (such as an asteroid or unguided vehicle), the colliding
hazard makes an attack roll against the target's Reflex Defense. The hazard's
attack roll is resolved by rolling 1d20 and adding a flat modifier based on
its size: Large, +1; Huge, +2; Gargantuan, +5; Colossal or bigger, +10. If
the attack hits, the colliding hazard, the target, and all passengers aboard

SIZE OF COLLIDING
VEHICLE OR HAZARD

DAMAGE'

Colossal (cruiser) 15d6 + Str modifier

Colossal

8d6 + Str modifier

Huge 4d6 + Str modifier

1 Double the damage if the colliding vehicle is using all-out movement (see
page 172).



--- Page 175 ---
vehicles involved in the collision take the amount of damage listed on Table
10-3: Collision Damage. If the attack fails, reduce the damage by half.

MISSILES AND TORPEDOES

Some vehicles carry guided projectile weapons such as proton torpedoes or
concussion missiles. Attacks with these weapons are resolved just as with
any other weapon.

If you aim before making an attack with a missile or torpedo, it locks
on to the target and can track its target independently. Make your attack
roll normally, but if you miss, the missile or torpedo can attempt to attack
again on your next turn. This next attack is made using the same attack
bonus, but with a -5 penalty. (You do not need to spend an action to make
this attack.) If the missile or torpedo misses its target a second time, it
self-destructs harmlessly.

Attacking a Missile or Torpedo: If a missile or torpedo misses its target
initially, it is possible to shoot it down before it attacks again. A missile or
torpedo has a Reflex Defense of 30 and 10 hit points, and it is considered
to occupy the same square as its target for purposes of determining range
penalties.

It is also possible to attack a missile or torpedo prior to its first attack,
but you must have readied an action specifically for this purpose (see Ready,
page 162).

TRACTOR BEAMS

Instead of damaging a vehicle's hit points, tractor beams prevent another
vehicle from escaping. When attacking with a tractor beam, your attack
hits if you equal or exceed the target's Reflex Defense. If you hit, make an
opposed grapple check (see Grapple, page 153). If you win the opposed
grapple check, the target is grabbed.

If a grabbed target is of your vehicle's size or smaller, then it cannot move
and it loses its Dexterity bonus to its Reflex Defense. Each round on your turn,
you must make another opposed grapple check; if you win the opposed check,
you may pull the target up to 10 squares closer to you (or 1 square closer to
you in starship scale) or hold it in place in its current square. If you lose the
opposed check, the target manages to slip free from the tractor beam.

If the grabbed target is larger than your vehicle, the target retains its
Dexterity bonus to its Reflex Defense and can move freely, but you may move
your vehicle up to 10 squares closer to it (or 1 square closer to it in starship
scale). If the grabbed vehicle ever moves beyond the range of your tractor
beam, the tractor beam's hold is broken automatically.

If you pull your target into your square (or pull your vehicle into a larger
target's square), your vehicle may use docking clamps to attach itself to
the target. Once this is done, it is possible to board the target ship by blow-
ing open or cutting through an airlock or the hull (see Attack an Object,
page 151).

VEHICLE
DESCRIPTIONS

This section presents several common vehicles that you can include in
your Star Wars campaign. Every vehicle description comes with a set of
combat statistics. Some statistics are exclusive to vehicles or require more
elaboration:

Challenge Level (CL): Heroes gain experience points (XP) for destroy-
ing, disabling, or otherwise overcoming the vehicle based on the vehicle's
CL (see Awarding Experience Points, page 248). However, they don't gain
additional XP for incidental crew or passengers killed as a result of the
vehicle's destruction. For example, heroes who blow up a shuttle don't also
receive XP for its crew; however, if the shuttle was transporting an Imperial
Moff that the heroes were hired to eliminate, they should receive XP for the
Imperial Moff as well.

Maximum Velocity: The maximum speed the vehicle can achieve after
using all-out movement for at least one full round. Maximum velocity is
never used in starship scale.


--- Page 176 ---
Grapple (Grp): The vehicle's grapple modifier is mainly used to resist
attempts to restrain the vehicle physically (usually via tractor beam).

Fighting Space: The fighting space that the vehicle occupies at character
scale, starship scale, or both (see Fighting Space, page 159).

Cover: The amount of cover the vehicle grants to its crew and passengers,
listed as none, +5 (normal cover), +10 (improved cover), or total.

Crew: The number and quality of the crew (see the Crew Quality sidebar).
The crew modifiers are already included in all other statistics in the vehicle
description.

Passengers: The number of passengers (including troops) that the vehicle
can carry, in addition to its crew.

Cargo Capacity: The amount of cargo the vehicle can carry.

Carried Craft: Other vehicles that are usually carried aboard this
vehicle.

Payload: The vehicle's complement of grenades, rockets, missiles, and
torpedoes. If the vehicle has no payload, this line is absent.

Hyperdrive: The multiplier used when calculating hyperspace travel
times (see Astrogation, page 237). If the starship has a backup hyperdrive,
its multiplier is listed in parentheses. Hyperdrive is never used in character
scale. If the vehicle has no hyperdrive, this line is absent.

Availability: See Restricted Items, page 118.

WALKERS

Most walkers are used as armored assault vehicles. Their sheer size and
strength enable them to carry more armor and weapons than a similarly sized
repulsorlift vehicle, and they can step over smaller obstacles.

All-Terrain Armored Transport (AT-AT)
The 15.5-meter-tall All Terrain Armored Transport (AT-AT) is an imposing,
four-legged behemoth that shakes the ground as it plods toward enemy
fortifications. (The Empire used AT-ATs to overwhelm Rebel forces on Hoth
in Episode V.)
AT-AT CL 14
Colossal ground vehicle (walker)
Init -2; Senses Perception +8
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 29; +16 armor
hp 300; DR 20; Threshold 79
Speed 4 squares (max. velocity 60 km/h)
Ranged heavy laser cannons +7 (see below) and

blaster cannons +7 (see below)
Fighting Space 6x12; Cover total
Base Atk +5; Grp +42
Atk Options autofire (medium blaster cannons)
Abilities Str 48, Dex 10, Con —, Int 14

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot -2

Crew 5 (expert); Passengers 40

Cargo 1 ton; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft 5 speeder bikes or 2
AT-STs

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale

Heavy laser cannons (gunner)

Atk +7, Dmg 6d10x2, 2-square splash
Blaster cannons (gunner)

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2

All-Terrain Scout Transport (AT-ST)

The 8.5-meter-tall All-Terrain Scout Transport (AT-ST) is a nimble, two-legged
mobile weapons platform that rapidly moves across battlefields and through
cramped urban environments, providing reconnaissance and quick-response
fire support for ground troops.

AT-ST CL8
Huge ground vehicle (walker)
Init +8; Senses Perception +8

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 12), Fort 20; +4 armor
hp 120; DR 10; Threshold 30
Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 90 km/h)
Ranged twin blaster cannons +6 (see below) and
twin light blaster cannon +6 (see below) or
Ranged twin blaster cannons +6 (see below) and
grenade launcher +6 (see below)
Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total
Base Atk +5; Grp +25
Atk Options autofire (twin light blaster cannon)
Abilities Str 30, Dex 14, Con —, Int 12
Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +8
Crew 2 (expert); Passengers none
Cargo none; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none
Payload 12 frag grenades
Availability Military; Cost not available for sale

Twin blaster cannons (pilot)
Atk +6, Dmg 4d10x2
Twin light blaster cannon (copilot)
Atk +6 (+1 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2
Grenade launcher (copilot)
Atk +6, Dmg 4d6, 2-square burst

x eSsaledvHea



--- Page 177 ---
0
I
>
v
ay
iu)
12
X

SaioiAaa

SPEEDERS

Ground-based repulsor vehicles, collectively known as landspeeders, are
common on planets throughout the galaxy. They are used widely by military
forces, civilian authorities, businesses, and private citizens. Most families
own at least one landspeeder, particularly on planets with scant urbanization
and little public transportation. Landspeeders are propelled by repulsorlifts,
although some racing and military models use ion engines for greater top-
end speed.

SoroSuub X-34 Landspeeder

One of the most popular models of civilian speeders is the SoroSuub X-series,
which can attain a maximum altitude of 1.5 meters. It is a durable two-person
craft that features holographic displays, computer-assisted navigation, and
counterbalances for a stable ride over rough terrain. (Luke Skywalker used
an X-34 landspeeder on Tatooine in Episode IV.)

SoroSuub X-34 Landspeeder i
Large ground vehicle (speeder)

Init +8; Senses Perception +5

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 10), Fort 14; +1 armor

hp 40; DR 5; Threshold 19

Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 330 km/h)

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover +5

Base Atk +0; Grp +15

Abilities Str 18, Dex 18, Con —, Int 12

Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot +8
Crew 1 (normal); Passengers 1

Cargo 30 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none
Availability Licensed; Cost 10,550 (2,500 used)

SPEEDER BIKES

These small, fast personal transports appeal to teenagers looking for thrills,
military forces that require effective scout vehicles, and law enforcers
needing swift pursuit craft. Speeder bike races are popular in the Core sys-
tems, where they are viewed as more refined than the extremely dangerous
Podraces. Still, speeder bikes emphasize speed and maneuverability over
safety and protection.

Aratech 74-Z Speeder Bike

The 74-Z is a basic speeder bike designed for military scouting and urban
patrol missions. It consists of a powerful repulsorlift engine with two small
thrust engines, a long forward control vane, and a small blaster cannon ina
rotating forward mount. It is designed for a single pilot but has room for a
passenger as well—both straddling the engine block of the vehicle.

Aratech 74-Z Speeder Bike CL 4
Large ground vehicle (speeder)

Init +14; Senses Perception +8

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 10), Fort 14; +1 armor

hp 40; DR 5; Threshold 19

Speed 12 squares (max. velocity 500 km/h)

Ranged laser cannon +7 (4d10, pilot)

Fighting Space 2x2; Cover none

Base Atk +5; Grp +14

Atk Options autofire (laser cannon)

Abilities Str 18, Dex 24, Con —, Int 14

Skills Initiative +14, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +14
Crew 1 (expert); Passengers 1

Cargo 3 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none
Availability Restricted; Cost 6,750 (1,200 used)

Laser cannon (pilot)
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10

ARMORED ASSAULT TANKS (AATS)
These heavily armored vehicles use wheels, treads, powered legs, or repul-
sorlifts to move about the battlefield. Although not maneuverable, they
pack incredible firepower and can safely transport small teams of troops
into hostile territory. The Trade Federation uses AAT-1s propelled by heavy
repulsorlifts on the front lines of a battlefield to soften up the enemy before
deploying waves of battle droids.

AAT-1 CL8
Huge ground vehicle (speeder)
Init +7; Senses Perception +6
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 23; +5 armor
hp 180; DR 15; Threshold 33
Weakness ion vulnerability
Speed 6 squares (max. velocity 55 km/h)
Ranged heavy laser cannon +4 (see below) and
light blaster cannons +4 (see below) and
repeating blaster cannons +4 (see below) or
Ranged heavy laser cannon +4 (see below) and
light blaster cannons +4 (see below) and
missile launchers +4 (see below)
Fighting Space 3x3; Cover total (crew), none (passengers)
Base Atk +2; Grp +25
Atk Options autofire (repeating blaster cannons)
Abilities Str 36, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14
Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +7



--- Page 178 ---
Crew 4 (skilled); Passengers 6 (external)

Cargo 500 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none
Payload 12 missiles

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale

lon Vulnerability—Due to a design flaw, the AAT takes double damage
from ion weapons.

Heavy laser cannon (gunner)

Atk +4, Dmg 6d10x2, 2-square splash
Light blaster cannons (gunner)

Atk +4, Dmg 2d10x2
Repeating blaster cannons (pilot)

Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2
Missile launcher (pilot)

Atk +4, Dmg 6d6, 2-square splash

AIRSPEEDERS
Airspeeders are swift flying vehicles that can achieve altitudes of a few
hundred kilometers; however, they are not suited for space travel.

Modified Incom T-47 Airspeeder

The Incom T-47 airspeeder, heavily modified, is the favored ground attack
airspeeder of the Rebel Alliance. They were used to protect Echo Base during
the Battle of Hoth and can be adapted to many environments.

Modified Incom-T47 Airspeeder CL6
Huge air vehicle (airspeeder)
Init +10; Senses Perception +7
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 10), Fort 16; +2 armor
hp 60; DR 10; Threshold 26
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,100 km/h), fly 4 squares
(starship scale)
Ranged double laser cannon +4 (see below) and
blaster cannon +4 (see below) or
Ranged double laser cannon +4 (see below) and
harpoon gun +4 (see below) or
Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew)
Base Atk +2; Grp +18
Atk Options autofire (double laser cannon, blaster cannon), harpoon gun
Abilities Str 22, Dex 22, Con —, Int 14
Skills Initiative +10, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +10
Crew 2 (skilled); Passengers none
Cargo 50 kg; Consumables 1 day; Carried Craft none
Availability Military; Cost 50,000 used

Harpoon Gun—A gunner use the harpoon gun to make a grapple check
against an enemy walker. The gunner must make an attack roll against
the walker; if successful, the pilot must make an opposed grapple
check. If the grapple check succeeds, the target walker cannot move
without first making a Pilot check (DC = harpoon gun's grapple
check result). If this Pilot check fails, the walker suffers an automatic
collision, taking twice its collision damage.

Double laser cannon (pilot)

Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 5d10
Blaster cannon (gunner)

Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 3d10
Harpoon gun (gunner)

Atk +4, Dmg — (grapple +27)

LAAT/i Gunship

The LAAT/i attack gunship, first deployed at the Battle of Geonosis, is an
example of a combat space transport designed to carry combat troops
directly into the heat of battle. Its weapons are used to clear a landing zone
and lay down suppressing fire as the troops exit the vehicle.

Sw HeSs4dgVvHoS

LAAT/i Gunship CL 12
Colossal air vehicle (airspeeder)
Init +0; Senses Perception +8
Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 13), Fort 26; +13 armor
hp 160; DR 15; SR 15; Threshold 76
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 620 km/h), fly 3 squares
(starship scale)
Ranged mass driver missile launchers +7 (see below) and
anti-personnel laser cannons +7 (see below) and
4 composite-beam pinpoint lasers +7 (see below)
Ranged rocket launcher +7 (see below) and
anti-personnel laser cannons +7 (see below) and
4 composite-beam lasers +7 (see below)
Fighting Space 6x6 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (none for
passengers if doors are open)
Base Atk +5; Grp +38
Atk Options autofire (anti-personnel laser cannons)
Special Actions penetration 10 (composite-beam lasers)
Abilities Str 42, Dex 14, Con —, Int 14
Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +8, Perception +8, Pilot +0
Crew 6 (expert); Passengers 30
Cargo 2 tons; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none
Payload 24 missiles, 6 rockets
Availability Military; Cost 65,000 (40,000 used)

Ss iaihiea



--- Page 179 ---
< yeSLavHoD

Penetration 10—The gunship's composite-beam lasers ignore the first 10
points of an enemy's damage reduction.

Mass driver missile launchers (pilot)
Atk +7, Dmg 6d10x2, 2-square splash
Rocket launcher (pilot)
Atk +7, Dmg 5d10x2, 2-square burst
Anti-personnel laser cannons (copilot)
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10
Composite-beam laser (gunner)
Atk +7, Dmg 3d10

STARFIGHTERS

Starfighters, sometimes known as "snub fighters,” are the ships of choice for
hotshot pilots. Equipped with light yet strong engines and quick, responsive
controls, starfighters can zip in and out of tight spots before most heavier
craft can react. Their weaponry is light, and their armor and shields are
minimal compared to those of larger ships, but a good pilot in a starfighter
can do as much damage as a capital ship bristling with gun turrets.

X-wing Fighter

Often hailed as the best starfighter ever made, the T-65B X-wing was

developed in secret when the Incom Corporation began to support the Rebel

Alliance. With impressive firepower for a ship of its size, sturdy shields, and

even a hyperdrive, the X-wing is as agile as an Imperial TIE fighter and far

more versatile. It is equipped with a topside astromech bay, letting the pilot

plug in an R2 droid to handle targeting, damage control, and hyperspace

calculation.

Incom T-65B X-wing Starfighter CL 10

Gargantuan starfighter

Init +7; Senses Perception +6

Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor

hp 120; DR 10; SR 15; Threshold 46

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares
(starship scale)

Ranged laser cannons +5 (see below) or

Ranged proton torpedoes +5 (see below)

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (pilot), +5
(astromech droid)

Base Atk +2; Grp +33

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons)

Abilities Str 42, Dex 22, Con —, Int 16

Skills Initiative +7, Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +6 (+3%), Pilot +7,
Use Computer +6 (+13")

Crew 1 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none

Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none

Payload 6 proton torpedoes

Hyperdrive x1, 10-jump memory (astromech droid)

Availability Military; Cost 150,000 (65,000 used)

* If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead.

Laser cannons (pilot)

Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2
Proton torpedoes (pilot)

Atk +5, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash

Y-Wing Fighter

The workhorse of the Rebel Alliance, the Koensayr Y-wing is not as popular
as other snub fighters, being neither as fast nor as maneuverable. However,
its impressive shields and weaponry more than make up for its performance
flaws.

Like the X-wing, the Y-wing provides a topside port to allow an astromech
droid to plug in and handle most of the in-flight “dirty work."
Koensayr Y-wing Starfighter CL 10
Gargantuan starfighter
Init +5; Senses Perception +6
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +7 armor
hp 120; DR 10; SR 25; Threshold 46
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,000 km/h), fly 4 squares

(starship scale)

Ranged laser cannons +5 (see below) and

ion cannons +5 (see below) or
Ranged proton torpedoes +5 (see below) and

ion cannons +5 (see below)

Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5

(astromech droid)

Base Atk +2; Grp +33

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, ion cannons)

Abilities Str 42, Dex 18, Con —, Int 16

Skills Initiative +5, Mechanics +6 (+13*), Perception +6, Pilot +5, Use
Computer +6 (+13*)

Crew 2 plus astromech droid (skilled); Passengers none

Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none

Payload 8 proton torpedoes

Hyperdrive x1, 10-jump memory (astromech droid)

Availability Military; Cost 135,000 (60,000 used)

* If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead.



--- Page 180 ---
Laser cannons (pilot)

Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2
lon cannons (gunner)

Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 ion
Proton torpedoes (gunner)

Atk +5, Dmg 9d10X2, 4-square splash

TIE Fighter

Cheap and efficient, TIE fighters are not so much feared for their capabilities
as their numbers. Mass-produced by Sienar Fleet Systems, TIE fighters cost
only a fraction of what a comparable fighter costs. Keeping the price down
means that TIE fighters have no shields, hyperdrives, or life support—not even
cockpit gravity. They can’t even land without special supports. The Imperial
Navy believes that this teaches pilots to rely on higher authorities. In reality,

it just teaches them to hope that they live long enough to be promoted to
a more advanced TIE variant.

TIE Fighter Cl..7

Huge starfighter

Init +8; Senses Perception +6

Defense Ref 15 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor

hp 60; DR 10; Threshold 32

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,200 km/h), fly 5 squares
(starship scale)

Ranged laser cannons +4 (see below)

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total

Base Atk +2; Grp +24

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons)

—K YSeidavHo

4
y
ib
a
(r
y
W |

|



--- Page 181 ---
«x HSiavHS

SSaiaiHga

Abilities Str 34, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14
Skills Initiative +8, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +8

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none
Cargo 65 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none
Availability Military; Cost 60,000 (25,000 used)

Laser cannons (pilot)
Atk +4 (-1 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2

TIE Interceptor

The TIE interceptor was designed specifically to counteract the Rebel Alliance
X-wing. To increase speed and firepower, the designers at Sienar gave it large
engines, more powerful energy converters, and a package of four fire-linked
laser cannons. Although put into production before the Battle of Yavin, these
fighters weren't in general use until just before the Battle of Endor.

TIE Interceptor CL 8

Huge starfighter

Init +11; Senses Perception +6

Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 11), Fort 24; +3 armor

hp 90; DR 10; Threshold 34

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,250 km/h), fly 5 squares
(starship scale)

Ranged laser cannons +5 (see below)

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total

Base Atk +2; Grp +26

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons)

Abilities Str 38, Dex 24, Con —, Int 16

Skills Initiative +11, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot +11

Crew 1 (skilled); Passengers none

Cargo 75 kg; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none

Availability Military; Cost 120,000 (50,000 used)

Laser cannons (pilot)
Atk +5 (+0 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2

Eta-2 Actis Interceptor

Designed to take advantage of Jedi reflexes and piloting skills, the nimble
Eta-2 Actis Interceptor is the foremost starfighter used by the Jedi during
the Clone Wars. Unlike many other starfighters, the Eta-2 does not boast
any shields, relying on the pilot's ability to avoid incoming damage rather
than protective shielding.

Eta-2 Actis Interceptor CL 11

Huge starfighter

Init +18; Senses Perception +12

Defense Ref 19 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor

hp 70; DR 10; Threshold 32

Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,500 km/h), fly 6 squares
(starship scale)

Ranged laser cannons +12 (see below) or

Ranged ion cannons +12 (see below)

Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (pilot), +5
(astromech droid)

Base Atk +10; Grp +32

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons, ion cannons)

Abilities Str 34, Dex 26, Con —, Int 14

Skills Initiative +18, Mechanics +12 (+13*), Perception +12, Pilot +18, Use
Computer +12 (+13*)

Crew 1 plus astromech droid (ace); Passengers none

Cargo 60 kg; Consumables 2 days (1 week with booster ring); Carried
Craft none

Hyperdrive x1 (with booster ring), 10-jump memory (astromech droid)

Availability Military; Cost 140,000 used

* If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead.

Laser cannons (pilot)

Atk +12 (+7 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2
lon cannons (pilot)

Atk +12 (+7 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2 ion

ARC-170 Starfighter
These rugged and durable attack fighters can handle independent raids as
well as assaults on capital ships. Their powerful shields, robust armor, and
tail gunner give them good odds even when surrounded by enemy droid
fighters.
ARC-170 Starfighter CL, 12
Gargantuan starfighter
Init +6; Senses Perception +8
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 13), Fort 28; +8 armor
hp 150; DR 10; SR 25; Threshold 48
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares

(starship scale)
Ranged heavy laser cannons +7 (see below) and

proton torpedoes +7 (see below) and

laser cannons +7 (see below)


--- Page 182 ---
Fighting Space 4x4 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total (crew), +5

(astromech droid)
Base Atk +5; Grp +38
Atk Options autofire (medium laser cannons, laser cannons)

Abilities Str 46, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14

Skills Initiative +6, Mechanics +8 (+13*), Perception +8, Pilot +6, Use

Computer +8 (+13°*)

Crew 3 plus astromech droid (expert); Passengers none
Cargo 110 kg; Consumables 1 week; Carried Craft none
Payload 8 proton torpedoes

Hyperdrive 1.5, 10-jump memory (astromech droid)
Availability Military; Cost 155,000 (70,000 used)

* If the ship has an astromech droid, use these skill modifiers instead.

Heavy laser cannons (pilot)
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 6d10x2

Proton torpedoes (copilot)
Atk +7, Dmg 9d10x2, 4-square splash

Laser cannons (gunner)
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2

“Vulture” Droid Starfighter

"Crewed" by a droid brain and controlled by a remote processor, the droid
starfighter is a completely mechanized vessel. Armed with blaster cannons
and torpedo launchers, droid starfighters are fast and agile. Unlike conven-
tional fighters, however, they can reconfigure themselves into "walk mode,"
allowing them to patrol on the ground as well as in space. Switching between

flight mode and walk mode requires a standard action.

“Vulture” Droid Starfighter
Huge starfighter/ground vehicle (walker)
Init +9; Senses Perception +8

Crew 0 (expert); Passengers none

Cargo none; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none
Payload 6 concussion missiles

Availability Restricted; Cost 19,000

Laser cannons
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2

Concussion missiles
Atk +7, Dmg 8d10x2, 4-square splash

Droid Tri-Fighter

Featuring a more advanced droid brain than the "Vulture" droid starfighters,
the droid tri-fighter has proven itself a capable and versatile addition to the
Separatist fleet. Its weapons can be fired at the same or separate targets,

giving it the ability to capitalize on a target-rich environment.

Droid Tri-Fighter
Huge starfighter
Init +10; Senses Perception +8
Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 24; +4 armor
hp 100; DR 10; Threshold 34
Immune droid traits (see page 187)
Speed fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,050 km/h), fly 4 squares
(starship scale)
Ranged laser cannon +7 (see below) and
3 light laser cannons +7 (see below) and
concussion missiles +7 (see below)
Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover —
Base Atk +5; Grp +29
Atk Options autofire (medium laser cannon, light laser cannons)

CL9

Abilities Str 38, Dex 18, Con —, Int 14
Skills Initiative +10, Perception +8, Pilot +10, Use Computer +8

Defense Ref 14 (flat-footed 11), Fort 22; +3 armor
hp 60; DR 10; Threshold 32
Immune droid traits (see page 187)

Speed 6 squares, fly 16 squares (max. velocity 1,180 km/h), fly 4 squares

(starship scale)
Ranged laser cannons +7 (see below) or
Ranged concussion missiles +7 (see below)
Fighting Space 3x3 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover —
Base Atk +5; Grp +27
Atk Options autofire (laser cannons)
Abilities Str 34, Dex 16, Con —, Int 14
Skills Initiative +9, Perception +8, Pilot +9, Use Computer +8

Crew 0 (expert); Passengers none

Cargo none; Consumables 2 days; Carried Craft none
Payload 6 concussion missiles

Availability Restricted; Cost 40,000

Laser cannon
Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 4d10x2

Light laser cannons

Atk +7 (+2 autofire), Dmg 3d10x2
Concussion missiles

Atk +7, Dmg 8d10x2, 4-square splash

x eSeicvHgD

Seaman



--- Page 183 ---
x HSslavHo

SS SSN

SPACE TRANSPORTS

A dizzying variety of commercial transports ply the space lanes of the galaxy,
carrying goods and passengers from system to system and world to world for
a reasonable price. Most are controlled by independent operators or corporate
interests, though governments employ their fair share of transports, some-
times for peaceful purposes ... and far too often not. Space transports are
nearly always armed, shielded, and hyperdrive-capable, allowing merchants
to survive pirate attacks—and smugglers to avoid authorities—while travel-
ing from place to place.

Corellian YT-1300 Transport

Perhaps the most adaptable light cargo transport in the galaxy, the YT-1300
design is built on a modular design to suit the needs of a wide variety of
clients, many of whom aren't Human, let alone bipedal. The YT-1300 is an
excellent all-purpose cargo transport, with powerful engines and a sturdy
hull. The Corellian Engineering Corporation was quick to realize that it had
a winner on its hands and made almost as many credits selling conversion
kits as it did selling the transports themselves.

Corellian YT-1300 Transport CL6
Colossal space transport
Init -5; Senses Perception +5
Defense Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 26; +12 armor
hp 120; DR 15; Threshold 76
Speed fly 12 squares (max. velocity 800 km/h), fly 2 squares
(starship scale)
Ranged laser cannon +2 (see below)
Fighting Space 12x12 or 1 square (starship scale); Cover total
Base Atk +0; Grp +36



--- Page 184 ---
Abilities Str 42, Dex 10, Con —, Int 14

Skills Initiative -5, Mechanics +5, Perception +5, Pilot -5, Use
Computer +5

Crew 2 (normal); Passengers 6

Cargo 100 tons; Consumables 2 months; Carried Craft none

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x12), nav computer

Availability Licensed; Cost 100,000 (25,000 used)

Laser cannon (gunner)
Atk +2, Dmg 4d10x2

CAPITAL SHIPS

Capital ships are the backbone of any star fleet, more than compensating
for their lack of speed and maneuverability with their weapons, armor, and
powerful shields. The largest carry hangars full of starfighters to supple-
ment their own impressive banks of blasters and ion cannons, gravity-well
projectors to stop fleeing opponents from entering hyperspace, or thousands
of ground troops and their support vehicles. Capital ship commanders take
great pride in knowing that they can make a difference just by bringing their
guns to bear, let alone firing them.

Corellian Corvette

The Corellian corvette is the logical step up from the YT-1300 transport—a

larger configurable space vessel for larger jobs. The corvette can serve as

a cargo transport, a passenger liner, a troop ship, or an escort. Corvettes

frequently find their way into civilian use, and a significant number fall into

the hands of pirates.

Corellian Corvette CL 16

Colossal (frigate) capital ship

Init +0; Senses Perception +6

Defense Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 38; +12 armor

hp 1,200; DR 15; SR 100; Threshold 138

Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale)

Ranged 3 turbolaser batteries +12* (see below)

Fighting Space 1 square (starship scale); Cover total

Base Atk +2; Grp +50

Abilities Str 66, Dex 18, Con —, Int 18

Skills Initiative +0, Mechanics +10, Perception +6, Pilot +0, Use
Computer +10

Crew 30 to 165 (skilled); Passengers 600

Cargo 3,000 tons; Consumables 1 year; Carried Craft none

Hyperdrive x2, nav computer (+3)

Availability Licensed; Cost 3.5 million (1.5 million used)

“Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size.

Turbolaser battery (4 gunners)
Atk +12 (-8 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5

Imperial I-class Star Destroyer

An indelible symbol of the Empire's military might, the Star Destroyer is

a powerful incentive for troublesome worlds to submit to the will of the

Emperor. Fast, tough, and armed to the teeth, an /mperial /-class Star

Destroyer can reduce a fleet of lesser ships to so much floating debris.

Imperial I-class Star Destroyer CL 20

Colossal (cruiser) capital ship

Init -2; Senses Perception +6

Defense Ref 18 (flat-footed 16), Fort 56; +16 armor

hp 2,100; DR 20; SR 150; Threshold 256

Speed fly 3 squares (starship scale)

Ranged 5 turbolaser batteries +17* (see below) and
5 ion cannon batteries +17* (see below) and
10 point-defense laser batteries +13 (see below) and
10 tractor beams +7* (see below)

Fighting Space 2x2 (starship scale); Cover total

Base Atk +2; Grp +68

Abilities Str 102, Dex 14, Con —, Int 20

Skills Initiative -2, Mechanics +6, Perception +6, Pilot -2, Use
Computer +6

Crew 37,085 (skilled); Passengers 9,700 (troops)

Cargo 36,000 tons; Consumables 6 years; Carried Craft 72 TIE fighters
(any variant), 8 Lambda-class shuttles, 20 AT-ATs, 30 AT-STs, various
support vehicles

Hyperdrive x2 (backup x8), nav computer

Availability Military; Cost not available for sale

* Apply a -20 penalty on attacks against targets smaller than Colossal size.

Turbolaser battery (6 gunners)

Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 5d10x5
lon cannon battery (6 gunners)

Atk +17 (-3 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg 3d10x5 ion
Point-defense laser battery (4 gunners)

Atk +13, Dmg 2d10x2
Tractor beam (2 gunners)

Atk +7 (-13 against targets smaller than Colossal), Dmg

— (grapple +68)

S eSsidvHo

"
i



--- Page 185 ---


--- Page 186 ---
= PANS

droid is a kind of intelligent robot, a mechanical automaton electronically
‘programmed to act, think, and behave in a certain way.

Droids facilitate various tasks that organic beings find tedious, difficult,
“or hazardous. They are typically fashioned in the likeness of their creators or
utilitarian design that stresses function. Their usefulness makes them a
mmon sight on nearly every inhabited world in the galaxy. They provide
tance, advice, and sometimes even friendship to trillions of sentient
S on a daily basis.

DROID'S LIFE

bipids are usually property, bought and sold like any other piece of equip-
t. Although some droid owners come to think of their droids as friends,
fact remains that droids are programmed to serve whoever is desig-
ted as their master. To the vast majority of droids, the concept of droid
dependence is unthinkable. Without someone to command them, what
would they do?

Even so, ownership and control are two very different things. Droids must
do what they are commanded to do to the best of their ability, but their
programming dictates how they accomplish their orders. Ordered to find a
replacement part for an X-wing, a droid might commence a systematic search
of the repair bay, then the docking facility, then the neighborhood, then the
countryside, and so on—all the while thinking its actions are perfectly logi-
cal. Droids often need very specific instructions to do what their masters
command, in a manner meeting their master's expectations.

Occasionally, events conspire to lead a droid to independence. These
so-called "self-owned" droids are few, but not as rare as many believe. One
might hear stories of droids that escape their masters after years of abuse,
or of an entire line of droids that manifest violent personalities as the result
of a programming glitch. However, independent droids are rarely haywire,
rampaging killers. Independent droids often enter into partnerships with
organic beings, particularly on worlds where a lone droid without a master
draws a lot of unwanted attention. Independent droids sometimes even
seek each other out, hoping to find strength and security in numbers. Some
independent droids are thrust into the unlikely role of hero, helping to defend
the galaxy from the depredations of evil as personified by the likes of the
Empire and the Yuuzhan Vong.

CREATING A
DROID HERO

If you want to play a droid as a hero, you can either play an existing droid from
this chapter or create your own unique droid hero. Droid heroes are assumed
either to be “self-owned” or to be owned by another player character (with
the approval of both the Gamemaster and the player in question). Even if
owned by another member of the party, the Gamemaster should ensure that

|

0
I
>
vu
4)
ty)
a)
X



--- Page 187 ---
ix HBStdvHoa

Soqlo8la

the owner does not abuse his authority by giving unreasonable or unwanted
orders to the other player's droid character. A droid player character should
be treated the same as any other player character, and in most cases it is
best to give suggestions or advice instead of actual orders. (In fact, most
droid heroes have a heuristic processor so that they can creatively interpret
orders and thus justify acting as they wish.)

When you decide to play a droid hero, you'll have to pick out a few details
about what type of droid your character will be. This is the equivalent of
picking a species for a non-droid character.

OPTION 1:

PLAYING A CUSTOM DROID

You can play a droid of your own design. The only choices you have to make
are choosing your degree, size, and accessories, and assigning your ability
scores. Once you have taken note of these details on your character sheet,
continue with character generation normally.

Determining Ability Scores

Droid characters determine their ability scores the same way non-droid
characters do (see Chapter 1: Abilities). However, droids do not have Con-
stitution scores because they are not actually living beings; they only need
scores for their five remaining abilities. You can determine your ability scores
in one of three ways:

Rolling: Roll 4d6 five times, discarding the lowest die each time. Add
up the remaining three dice and assign the result to any one of your five
abilities.

Planned Generation: All of your ability scores start at 8, and you have 21
points to spend to increase them (see Planned Generation, page 18).

Standard Score Package: The standard score package for droid heroes
is 15, 14, 13, 12, and 10. Assign these five scores to your five abilities as
you see fit.

Degree

Droids are classified by degree, reflecting the types of tasks they typically
perform. Generally, 1st-degree droids are medical and analytical droids,
2nd-degree droids are mechanical and technical droids, 3rd-degree droids
are protocol and domestic droids, 4th-degree droids are security and battle
droids, and 5th-degree droids are labor and utility droids. A droid's function
does not have to match its degree, but this is uncommon.

Pick a degree (1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, or 5th) for your droid. This determines
your ability score modifiers, as shown in Table 11-1: Droid Degrees. For
example, a 3rd-degree protocol droid increases its Wisdom and Charisma
scores by 2 and reduces its Strength score by 2.

or

DEGREE ABILITY MODIFIERS

astromech, technical

a eee

combat, security

Size

You can choose to play a Medium or Small droid. Droids of other sizes exist,
but they are controlled by the GM.

A droid's size determines its ability modifiers, its size bonus to Reflex
Defense, its size bonus on Stealth checks, adjustments to hit points and
damage threshold, its carrying capacity (see Encumbrance, page 140), and
its cost factor (see below), as shown in Table 11-2: Droid Sizes.

Medium: Player character droids of Medium size have no special modifiers
because of their size. They have a walking locomotion system (see page 188)
and a speed of 6 squares.

Small: Player character droids of Small size apply the following ability
score modifiers: +2 Dexterity, -2 Strength. They have a tracked locomotion
system (see page 188) and a speed of 4 squares. Small droids gain a +1
size bonus to their Reflex Defense and a +5 size bonus on Stealth checks.
However, their lifting and carrying limits are three-quarters of those of
Medium characters.

Cost Factor: A droid's cost factor is used to calculate the cost of the droid
and some droid systems. Particularly large droids can be very expensive, but WY
particularly small droids are not any cheaper due to the expenses associated
with miniaturization.

Class and Level
You are 1st level in one heroic class (noble, scoundrel, scout, or soldier) of
your choice. You cannot choose the Jedi class.

Systems and Accessories
You have a heuristic processor (see page 190) and two arm appendages
(see page 189).

Your may spend up to 1,000 credits on additional locomotion systems (see
page 188), appendages (see page 189), and accessories (see page 193) as you see @)
fit. You do not get to keep any left over credits, but you still gain the appropriate
starting credits according to your class (see Chapter 3: Heroic Classes).


--- Page 188 ---
Droid Traits
All droids characters have certain traits in common as discussed in Droid
Traits below.

OPTION 2: PLAYING A
STANDARD DROID MODEL

If you wish to forego creating your own custom droid, you can always play
one of the stock models found later in the chapter. If you use this option,
you do not roll for ability scores; instead, you automatically have the ability
scores listed for the selected model of droid. The droid you select must meet
the following criteria, and you may modify the stock model as noted here.

Size: You can only be Small or Medium size.

Processor: You cannot have a remote processor, so you must install a
basic processor or heuristic processor if the selected model of droid does
not normally include one (see Processors, page 190).

Class and Level: The droid you select can have no more than three levels
in the nonheroic class or one level in any heroic class. If the droid you select
has only one or two levels in the nonheroic class, you may choose to add
one level in a heroic class of your choice; this adds 1,500 credits to your
droid's final cost.

You begin play with the minimum number of experience points neces-
sary for your character level. For example, a 2nd-level nonheroic/1st-level
scoundrel would begin play with 3,000 XP.

Final Cost: The final cost of your droid, including any necessary adjust-
ments for a processor or adding a level in a heroic class, cannot exceed 5,000
credits. You may add accessories or replace systems as you see fit as long as
your final cost remains within this limit. You do not get to keep any unspent
credits, but you still gain the appropriate starting credits according to your
class (see Chapter 3: Heroic Classes).

Traits: All droids have certain traits in common (see Droid Traits,
below).

Once you have made all necessary adjustments and noted these details
on your character sheet, continue with character generation normally.

DROID TRAITS

Droids share the following basic traits:

Abilities: Droids are nonliving entities, so they do not have Constitution
scores. Droids can increase any two of their five remaining ability scores
by +1 each at 4th level and every four levels thereafter, just like any other
character. These increases represent improved heuristics and algorithms that
the droid has developed from experience as well as upgrades to its compo-
nents undertaken as a part of routine maintenance. Droid ability modifiers
are determined by their degree and size (see Degree and Size, above). A droid
can never have an ability score less than 1, regardless of modifications.

Behavioral Inhibitors: Droids (except 4th-degree droids) cannot inten-
tionally harm a sentient living being or knowingly allow a sentient living being
to be harmed. Furthermore, all droids must follow orders given to them by
their rightful owners, as long as those orders don't require the droid to harm
a sentient living being. Droids with heuristic processors can sometimes violate
these restrictions by creatively interpreting their behavioral inhibitions (see
Processors, page 190).

lon Damage Vulnerability: As electronic constructs, droids are vulner-
able to damage from ion weapons (see lon Weapons, page 159). Generally,
ion weapons have the same effect on droids that stun weapons have on
living beings.

Maintenance: Droids do not sleep, eat, or breathe. However, they do
need to enter shutdown mode and recharge for 1 hour after 100 hours of
operation. If a droid fails to do so, it must make an Endurance check each

SIZE MODIFIER SIZE MODIFIER EXTRA SIZE BONUS TO CARRYING COST
DROID SIZE ABILITY MODIFIERS TO REF DEFENSE TO STEALTH HIT POINTS DMG THRESHOLD CAPACITY FACTOR
Colossal +32 Str, -4 Dex -10 -20 +100 +50 x20 x20
Gargantuan +24 Str, -4 Dex -5 -15 +50 +20 x10 x10
Huge +16 Str, -4 Dex -2 -10 +20 +10 x5 Bs}
Large +8 Str, -2 Dex -1 -5 +10 +5 “2 x2
Medium None +0 +0 - - x1 *|
Small -2 Str, +2 Dex +1 +5 - - x0.75 m2
Tiny -4 Str, +4 Dex +2 +10 - - xO.5 x5
Diminutive -6 Str, +6 Dex +5 +15 - - x0.25 x10
Fine -8 Str, +8 Dex +10 +20 - - x0.01 x20

Sx HSidvHD

SaqIeUNa



--- Page 189 ---
ix BeSsiavHo

SQlel!G)

hour (DC 10, +1 per additional hour after the first) or move -1 persistent
step along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). This persistent
condition can only be removed by the droid recharging for 1 hour.

Memory:A droid's trained skills, feats, and talents can be reassigned with
the Use Computer skill. A droid hero can use its own Use Computer skill to
perform this reprogramming, but it takes a -5 penalty on its skill check. If a
droid is ever subjected to a complete memory wipe, it becomes a basic model
of its type, losing any levels and abilities gained (see Processors, below).

Nonliving: A droid is immune to poison, disease, radiation, noncorrosive
atmospheric hazards, vacuum, mind-affecting effects, stunning effects, and
any other effect that works only on living targets. Droids have no connection
to the Force and can't gain the Force Sensitivity feat or learn Force powers.
Droids do not have a Constitution score, so they don't get bonus hit points
for having a high Constitution, and they apply their Strength modifier to
their Fortitude Defense.

Unlike living beings, droids don't "die," but they can be disabled or
destroyed. If a droid is reduced to 0 hit points, it is disabled and cannot be
reactivated until it is repaired so that has at least 1 hit point. If the attack
that reduced the droid to O hit points also exceeds the droid's damage
threshold, the droid is destroyed instead. A destroyed droid cannot be
repaired or salvaged.

Repair: Droids can regain lost hit points only through the use of the
Mechanics skill (see page 68). A droid can use this skill to repair itself, but
it takes a -5 penalty on its skill check.

Shut Down: A droid that is shut down can take no actions and is effec-
tively unconscious. Shutting down a willing droid is a standard action. Shut-
ting down an unwilling droid is more difficult, requiring that you to grab the
droid (see Grab, page 152) and then make a Mechanics check (DC = droid’s
Will Defense) as a standard action while it’s grabbed. You cannot shut down
an unwilling droid with locked access unless it is disabled or otherwise help-
less (see Locked Access, page 195).

Skills: Droids normally cannot use any skill untrained except for Acrobat-
ics, Climb, Jump, and Perception. A droid with a heuristic processor ignores
this limitation (see Processors, page 190).

Systems: Droids can have many of their characteristics changed by install-
ing or replacing existing systems (see Modifying Droids, page 197).

Automatic Languages: Binary plus one language chosen by the designer
(usually Basic).

DROID SYSTEMS

Unlike characters and creatures, droids are essentially collections of differ-
ent equipment called systems. A droid’s systems can be upgraded, replaced,
and modified many times throughout a droid's operational lifetime. A droid
system falls into one of four categories: locomotion, processor, appendage,
or accessory.

LOCOMOTION

All droids begin with a base movement speed determined by locomotion
system (see Table 11-3: Droid Locomotion). Droids can have more than one
locomotion system. Add 500 x the droid's cost factor for the second locomo-
tion system, 1,000 x the droid's cost factor for the third, 2,000 x the droid's
cost factor for the fourth, and 5,000 x the droid's cost factor for the fifth,

Walking Droids: Walking droids are the most versatile droids, having
legs and feet that let them travel like bipeds, quadrupeds, and other similar
creatures. The most common chassis for walking droids is the "humanoid"
form (two arms, two legs, and a head). They suffer the usual penalties when
moving through difficult terrain (See Difficult Terrain, page 159).

Wheeled Droids: Wheeled droids use one or more powered wheels to
move and are generally designed to traverse smooth surfaces. Wheeled
droids can't use the Climb skill, and the penalties of moving through difficult
terrain are doubled.

Tracked Droids: Tracked droids are an improvement on the wheeled
droid, having ridged treads that give them more traction. Tracked droids
ignore the penalties of difficult terrain, but they take a -5 penalty on all
Climb checks.

Hovering Droids: Hovering droids use repulsorlift technology to float
slowly above the ground (within 3 meters). They ignore the penalties of
difficult terrain.

SPEED (BY DROID SIZE) —---
LOCOMOTION UP TO SMALL MEDIUM LARGE OR BIGGER COST
Walking 4 squares 6 squares 8 squares 10 x cost factor x (speed) squared
Wheeled 6 squares 8 squares 10 squares 5 x cost factor x (speed) squared
Tracked 4 squares 6 squares 8 squares 20 x cost factor x (speed) squared
Hovering 6 squares 6 squares 6 squares 100 x cost factor x (speed) squared
Flying 9 squares 12 squares 12 squares 200 x cost factor x (speed) squared


--- Page 190 ---
Flying Droids: Flying droids use engines of some kind to travel more or
less wherever they please. They are not hampered by any type of terrain, but
tend to be the most expensive.

Stationary Droids: Stationary droids do not have a locomotion system
and cannot move from a fixed location.

Restricted Locomotion System

The cost of a droid's locomotion system can be reduced by placing limitations
on its use. The two types of restrictions are exclusive and limited. A restricted
locomotion system costs only one-tenth the normal cost.

Exclusive Locomotion System: The droid must spend a move action to
engage or disengage this locomotion system. While the system is engaged,
the droid can only use the move and run actions.

Limited Locomotion System: The droid can only use this locomotion
system for a limited time. After using this locomotion system for 1 round, the
droid must make an Endurance check (DC 10, +1 per check after the first) or
it cannot use that locomotion system again for 1 minute (10 rounds).

Climbing Claws

Claws designed to grip a surface can be added to any droid with a walking
locomotion system. Climbing claws grant the droid a climb speed equal to
one-half its walking speed. In addition, a droid equipped with climbing claws
may reroll a failed Climb check (keeping the better result) and can take 10
on Climb checks even when rushed or threatened. Climbing claws double
the cost of a walking locomotion system.

Extra Legs

Walking droids are usually bipedal, but a walking droid can be built with three
or more legs (usually four) to grant the droid extra stability and carrying
capacity. This doubles the cost of the walking locomotion system, but the
droid's carrying capacity is 50% higher than that of a bipedal droid of the
same Strength. In addition, the droid gains a +5 stability bonus on checks
to resist attempts to knock it prone.

Jump Servos

Repulsorlift-assisted jump servos can be added to any droid with a walking
locomotion system. Jump servos grant the droid the ability to treat all
jumps as running jumps, even without the normal running start (see

the Jump skill, page 68). In addition, the droid may reroll a failed

Jump check (keeping the better result) and take 10 on Jump checks

even when rushed or threatened. Jump servos double the cost of a
walking locomotion system.

Magnetic Feet

Electromagnetic grippers enable a droid to cling to a ship's hull, even when the
ship is moving at high speed. Only droids with walking, wheeled, or tracked
locomotion can have magnetic feet.

APPENDAGES
The types of appendages a droid has determines how well it is able to
touch, hold, lift, carry, push, pull, or place objects. A limb that isn't used for
locomotion or balance has one of the following types of appendages: probe,
instrument, tool, claw, or hand.

Droids can use their appendages to make unarmed attacks. The damage
dealt by an unarmed attack depends on the droid's size and the type of
appendage. Table 11-4: Droid Appendages and Damage lists the base
unarmed damage; remember to apply the droid's Strength modifier to this

|
|
|
|

SaIeue |]

Ix 4SievrHoS



--- Page 191 ---
ix SSsilavno

SGieolh'l@a)

DROID SIZE PROBE INSTRUMENT TOOL CLAW HAND

Diminutive a _ ~ | -

Small - | 1d2 1d3 1d2

Large 12 1d3 14 1d6 1d4

Gargantuan 14 1d6 1d8 2d6 1d8

base damage. A droid can have any number of appendages, but this does not
increase the number of actions or attacks the droid can make in a round.

Probe: Few droids have no actual manipulators. The bare minimum is a
probe that can push or pull objects.

Instrument: Instruments are a step up from simple probes. They
might be designed to accomplish specific tasks. For example, a droid
with a hypodermic syringe as its sole appendage can use the syringe for
its intended purpose, but otherwise can only push objects with it. A few
instruments are actually designed to clamp, and can thus hold objects,
but they are generally delicate. A droid using an instrument of this nature
has a carrying capacity (see Encumbrance, page 140) as if its Strength
score were one-quarter of its actual value.

Tool: Tool appendages are somewhat sturdier than instruments. A droid
must make a DC 15 Dexterity check to lift, carry, or drag objects for which its
tools were not designed. The GM might rule that particularly delicate objects
have a higher DC. If the check fails, the droid drops the object.

Weapons mounted on a droid are considered tool appendages unless
otherwise noted. A tool mount does not include the cost of the tool or
weapon mounted on it.

Claw: Claws are an intermediate step between tools and hands. They are
useful for grabbing onto objects to be moved, but aren't very good for tasks
that require fine manipulation. While a droid could easily carry a blaster in
its claw, it would have difficulty firing it, for example. A droid using a claw
to perform a task that normally requires a true hand must make a DC 15
Dexterity check to succeed at the task. If the check fails, the droid drops the
object it is attempting to manipulate.

Hand: A droid is considered to have a true hand if its gripping appendage
includes at least three digits, one of which is opposable. Factory-model 3P0
Series protocol droids and Baktoid Combat Automata battle droids come
equipped with hands.

Telescopic Appendage

The droid has an appendage that reaches farther from its body than normal.
A telescopic appendage has twice the normal reach for the droid’s size.
For example, a Medium droid with a telescopic appendage has a reach of
2 squares.

Stabilized Mount

For five times the listed cost and weight, a tool appendage can be stabilized
so that it can hold a larger weapon. This allows the droid to use that weapon
as if was wielded in two hands.

PROCESSORS

A droid can't perform any functions without its processor (also known as
a droid brain), which contains all the basic information the droid needs to
move its appendages, travel from place to place, behave in a certain way,
and so on. A droid's Intelligence score reflects the quality of its proces-
sor. Low-intelligence droids tend to specialize in single tasks that require
no deductive capability. High-intelligence droids are considerably more
versatile—and more expensive.

Basic Processor: Basic processors are not designed for creative thought
and problem solving, and as such most droids interpret instructions and
behavioral inhibitions very literally. Furthermore, basic processors are very
limited in that the droid cannot perform any task for which it was not
programmed. For example, a droid that is not trained in the Deception skill
cannot lie or otherwise convey false or unknown information. A droid witha
basic processor cannot use any skill untrained except for Acrobatics, Climb,
Jump, and Perception. Similarly, a basic processor does not allow a droid
to use any weapon with which it is not proficient, and a droid's behavioral
inhibitors may prevent it from harming sentient living beings altogether (see
Behavioral Inhibitors, below).

Every droid comes with a basic processor, at the very least.

Heuristic Processor: This type of processor allows a droid to learn by
doing, usually without instruction. The droid is able to reason through several
potential solutions to tasks and formulate the best approach. Because of this,
a droid with a heuristic processor may use skills untrained, just like any other
character. Similarly, the droid can wield a weapon even if it is not proficient
in its use (but still takes the normal -5 penalty on attack rolls).

In addition, a droid with a heuristic processor can creatively interpret its
instructions, allowing it to complete tasks in a manner that it deems appro-
priate. A heuristic processor allows a droid to work around its behavioral
inhibitors as long as it can justify a given action. For example, a noncombat


--- Page 192 ---
droid with a heuristic processor can attack and even harm sentient living
being as long as it believes that doing so will ultimately save more sentient
living beings from harm.

Over time, a droid equipped with a heuristic processor develops a unique
personality based on experience. Because of this, memory wipes and restrain-
ing bolts are commonly used to ensure that a heuristic processor doesn't
allow a droid to stray too far from its intended purpose. Still, some progres-
sive masters actually encourage their droids to break their programming,
trusting the droid's judgment to make independent decisions without taking
advantage of the situation.

Remote Processor: The droid's processor isn't located in the droid;
instead, the droid is actually a drone for a remote processor. The processor is
equipped with a transmitter that allows a droid equipped with the appropri-
ate remote receiver to operate as far away as 5 km (for the least expensive
model) to as much as 5,000 km (for the most expensive model).

The advantage of a remote processor is that it makes the droid much less
expensive because it only needs a receiver instead of a local control system.
The drawback is that the droid doesn't react as quickly as a droid with an
internal processor, so it takes a -2 penalty to its Dexterity.

Remote Receiver: This unit allows a droid to receive instructions from a
remote processor. Only droids without internal processors (such as Baktoid
Combat Automata battle droids) can be fitted with remote receivers. A
remote receiver can only be connected to one remote processor at a time.
Changing the connection to a different remote processor requires a DC 20
Mechanics check and a tool kit.

Backup Processor: A droid with a remote receiver can also have a backup
processor that allows the droid to function even if it loses contact with its
remote processor. The droid will continue executing its last received orders
until contact is reestablished.

Synchronized Fire Circuits: A droid with a remote receiver can have
synchronized fire circuits that better coordinate its actions with other droids.
When successfully using the aid another action to assist another droid con-
nected to the same remote processor, a droid with synchronized fire circuits
grants an additional +2 bonus to the other droid's check or roll.

Behavioral Inhibitors

Even without a restraining bolt or periodic memory wipes, most droids oper-
ate according to a rigid set of guidelines. A droid's core programming—the
part of its memory that can't be wiped—provides it with strict instructions
on how to react to common circumstances, most of which revolve around
obedience, safety, ethics, and morality. These instructions are the droid's
behavioral inhibitors.

The most common restriction coded into a droid's memory is the notion
that it can't harm a sentient living being or, through inaction, allow a sen-
tient living being to come to harm. (Fourth-degree droids do not have this
restriction.) Droids are under similar strictures not to allow themselves to be

harmed unless specifically ordered to do so. Of course, droids are also hard-
wired to obey the commands of their designated masters. When a master's
orders conflict with the droid's behavioral inhibitors, the droid is required
to inform its master immediately.

Restraining Bolt: A restraining bolt turns off a droid's motor impulse
without actually shutting down the droid. The restraining bolt is activated
with a handheld device called a droid caller (see below). Restraining bolts
must be secured to specific locations on droids. Attaching or removing a
restraining bolt is a full-round action and requires a DC 10 Mechanics check.
A droid fitted with a restraining bolt can't upgrade or improve its skills (see
Reprogramming, below).

A droid with a heuristic processor can attempt to remove its own restrain-
ing bolt as a standard action with a successful DC 20 Charisma check followed
by asuccessful DC 15 Mechanics check. A droid that fails the Charisma check
can't attempt to remove the restraining bolt again until 24 hours pass.

Droid Caller: The droid caller is a handheld transmitter weighing 0.2 kg.
It transmits a signal to any droid equipped with a restraining bolt. The droid
caller overrides a droid's motor function and impels it toward the caller for
as long as the device is activated.

BINARY
Nearly all droids are programmed to understand a binary computer
language used by most computers and intelligent machines. The simple
version of this is a language skill called Binary. With it, droids can com-
municate with computers and each other. Binary allows a computer or
droid to communicate mathematical or technical information in great
detail at a very high rate (approximately 100 times as fast as normal
speech), but it has great difficulty expressing nontechnical topics such
as emotion, art, philosophy, or the Force. For example, as a free action,
a droid could use Binary to describe the exact location and physical
description of all objects and characters that the droid detects in a 10-
square-by-10-square area, but the droid would be unable to express the
nuance of a conversation or the emotion conveyed by body language.
Obviously, some droids can understand additional languages as
well—most droids in the galaxy are programmed with Basic, even if
they can't actually articulate the language. Some living beings learn to
interpret the binary language of droids, even if they can't themselves
speak an approximation of it. A living being who understands Binary
cannot understand the same volume of information as another droid
or computer, so the speaking droid must voluntarily slow its speech to
normal rates (that is, the same as Basic or any other language) so that
the living being can understand it.

1X HsiLavwHo

 BGIENE)

AAh A ate aaa ara


--- Page 193 ---
ix HSLavHS

SQiella@)

A droid with a heuristic processor fitted with a restraining bolt can resist
the droid caller with a successful DC 20 Charisma check. If successful, that
droid can't be affected by that specific droid caller for 24 hours.

Reprogramming

A basic model droid comes with factory-preset skills and a certain set
of trained skills, feats, and sometimes talents. These factory-presets are
embedded in the droid's core programming and cannot be altered, but
many droids have one or more trained skills left unassigned so that they can
easily be programmed for their specific duties. Unassigned skills as well as
feats and talents gained through level advancement can be altered through
reprogramming.

Reprogramming a droid requires a Use Computer check (DC = droid's
Will Defense) and 30 minutes of uninterrupted work. Reprogramming feats
and talents is more difficult, so you take a -5 penalty on your Use Com-
puter check. Furthermore, feats and talents can only be reprogrammed if
they are neither a requirement for any of the droid's prestige classes nora
prerequisite for any feat or talent the droid retains. As always, a droid must
meet all prerequisites for any replacement feats or talents. Reprogramming
requires that the droid be shut down for the duration of the procedure (but
see "Droid Self-Reprogramming,” below).

To reprogram a skill, the programmer must be trained in that skill or
purchase a skill package (100 credits). To reprogram a feat or talent, the
programmer must either have that feat or talent or purchase a feat or talent
package (1,000 credits).

If the droid's owner is unable to do the reprogramming himself, he can
hire a professional programmer to do the task for him. The standard cost of
hiring a programmer is (droid's Will Defense squared) x 10 credits for a skill,
or 10 times this amount for a feat or talent. This cost includes any necessary
skill, feat, or talent packages.

Droid Self-Reprogramming: A droid trained in the Use Computer skill
may attempt to reprogram itself. However, the droid must have the appro-
priate skill, feat, or talent package to do so, and it takes a -5 penalty on its
Use Computer skill check. A droid attempting to self-reprogram does not
have to be shut down, but it is helpless and unable to take any actions until
the attempt is completed.

Memory Wipes
Although intelligent droids consider it frightful and ghoulish and heroic droids
regard it as a fate worse than death, the memory wipe is a fact of existence
for most droids. Its primary purpose is to eradicate personality quirks that
distinguish an independent droid.

Wiping a droid's memory requires a successful Use Computer check
against the droid's Will Defense. The droid must be shut down to perform
the memory wipe.

A memory wipe erases one class level per minute. A complete memory
wipe reduces a droid to a basic model with no personality quirks and no class
abilities. For example, a 3PO Series protocol droid that had been a 1st-level
nonheroic/4th-level scoundrel becomes a 1st-level nonheroic basic model
after a 4-minute memory wipe, losing its scoundrel levels and all the cor-
responding benefits.

Downloading and Restoring Memory
Unlike organic beings, droids have a form of mechanical immortality: If a
droid's programming is saved to a computer system, and a new chassis and
droid brain can be bought or found, others can attempt to load its memory
into the new droid and reactivate the droid.

A successful Use Computer check is required to transfer a droid's pro-
gramming into a new chassis. The DC for the Use Computer check depends
on the type of new chassis being used:

Same model DC 20
Different model, same degree DC 25
Different model, different degree DC 35

Each time the transfer is attempted, the droid must make a DC 15 Intel-
ligence check. A failed check indicates that the droid's memory suffers
corruption: a permanent reduction of 1d6 Intelligence points. The corrupted
programming can't be repaired; if the droid's Intelligence modifier decreases
because of corruption, the droid's trained skills must be reduced accordingly.
The droid also loses access to feats that have an Intelligence prerequisite
higher than the droid's new Intelligence score.

A droid successfully transferred into another droid of the same model
resumes functioning as it was before the transfer, retaining all ability scores,
class levels, skills, feats, and talents.

A droid successfully transferred into a different model adopts the Strength
and Dexterity of the new model but keeps its previous Intelligence, Wisdom,
and Charisma scores. The droid retains its trained skills, although skill modi-
fiers based on Strength and Dexterity might need adjusting. Finally, the droid
loses one class level (including all associated talents and feats) as it has to
reprogram and adapt its memory and sensory inputs for the new chassis.


--- Page 194 ---
ACCESSORIES

Any miscellaneous system that does not fall under one of the above catego-
ries can be considered an accessory. Accessories add functions or improve
existing systems on a droid, making them more capable and efficient. Table
11-5: Droid Accessories summarizes the various accessories described in
this chapter.

Cost and Weight: Sometimes a droid accessory has a flat cost or weight.
Often the cost and/or weight is determined by multiplying a base number
by the droid’s cost factor, which is determined by the droid's size (see Table
11-2: Droid Sizes, page 187).

Availability: Some droid accessories have limited availability or are
strictly regulated, as described in Restricted Items (see page 118).

Armor

Droids can be equipped with built-in armor that provides an armor bonus
to Reflex Defense. Bipedal droids with two hand appendages can also wear
armor designed for humanoid creatures; however, the armor bonus granted
by built-in droid armor does not stack with the armor bonus provided by worn
armor. Table 11-6: Droid Armor summarizes the different types of built-in
droid armor available.

Speed: A droid with built-in light, medium, or heavy armor takes no
penalty to its speed.

Armor Check Penalty: A droid with built-in armor takes an armor check
penalty on attack rolls as well as skill checks made using the following skills:
Acrobatics, Climb, Endurance, Initiative, Jump, Stealth, and Swim. The type
of armor worn determines the size of the penalty: light, -2; medium, -5;
heavy, -10. A droid with the appropriate Armor Proficiency feat (see page
82) negates these penalties. .

Maximum Dexterity Bonus: Built-in droid armor has a maximum Dexter-
ity bonus, just like normal armor (See Armor, page 131).

Availability: Some armor has limited availability.

Rare: This armor is rarely for sale on the open market. The price of the
armor on the black market is usually double the listed cost.

Licensed, Restricted, Military, or Illegal: Ownership of the armor is limited
or strictly regulated, as described in Restricted Items (see page 131).

Running in Heavy Armor: When running in heavy armor, a droid can
only move up to three times its speed (instead of four times).

Communications
All droids are capable of emitting the sounds necessary to speak Binary, a
language used by droids and computers to quickly transmit large amounts
of information (see Binary sidebar, page 191).

Vocabulator: The droid is equipped with a speaker that enables it to emu-
late speech, rather than simply spout machine code. This device is standard
if the droid has ability to speak any language other than Binary.

Comlink: The droid is equipped with an integrated comlink system. It is
otherwise identical to the standard comlink (see page 134).

Diagnostics Package

Some droids are equipped to perform diagnostics, either as an aid to a techni-
cian or as a general safety feature. The diagnostic package gives a droid a +2
equipment bonus on Mechanics checks to diagnose problems.

Hardened Systems

Droids of Large or greater size can be designed to have internal armor and redun-
dant systems that enable it to continue functioning despite heavy damage. This
is represented by a multiplier that increases the bonus hit points and damage
threshold based on the droid's size. For example, a Large droid with hardened
systems X3 would have +30 hit points and a +15 bonus to its damage threshold
instead of the usual +10 hit points and +5 bonus to its damage threshold.

ix eSetgvHa

SQlOoh@)



--- Page 195 ---
A EER TS sae RS EL eR a SE

Internal Storage DROID SIZE MAXIMUM WEIGHT LIMIT

The droid has a certain amount of open space in its chassis, allowing for the Small 5 kg
addition of new internal components or compartments for carried items. Medium 10 kg
Droids of Tiny size or smaller cannot have internal storage. Large 20 kg
For each 50 credits spent, the droid can carry 1 kg of material or equip- Huge 50 kg
ment in internal storage. A droid's size determines the maximum weight of Gargantuan 500 kg
items stored in internal storage, as noted below: Colossal 5,000 kg

EQUIPMENT COST WEIGHT AVAILABILITY
ee Oe GR OEE ee ane
20 x cost factor (5 x cost factor) kg
nl 50 x cost factor (5 x cost factor) kg
Instrument 5 x cost factor (1 x cost factor) kg -
GC ae 2x cost factor (0.5 x cost factor) kg ce
Tool 10 x cost factor (2 x cost factor) kg -
Climbing claws _ : appendage cost x 2 - ee
Jump servos appendage cost x 2 (2 x cost factor) kg -
r Ve cae appendage cost x 2 - | oe
Telescopic appendage appendage cost x 2 (normal weight x 2) kg

Comlink, internal 250 0.1 kg
UNeeubuiatar 2) aii 50 0.5 kg ee ee
Diagnostics “om 250 4kg -
Dred caller 0.2 kg
cE CR SIS 3
Hardened system x2 1,000 x cost factor (100 x cost factor) kg Military
Hardened si Bi 2,500 x cost factor (250 x cost factor) kg Mea i eligi
Hardened system “’ 4,000 x cost factor (400 x cost factor) kg aaa
~ Hardened sy: em x5 i 6,250 x cost factor (650 x cost factor) kg a ilitary ey
PBS SP 0
Compartment space (per kilogram) 50 - ~
Spring-loaded mechanism 150 3kg oo.

Locked access 50 - Licensed


--- Page 196 ---
Spring-Loaded Mechanism: This device allows a Small, Medium, or
Large droid to launch an item held in an internal storage compartment up
to 4 squares as a standard action. The item can weight no more than 4 kg,
and the droid makes a ranged attack against Reflex Defense 10 to launch
the projectile into a designated square. Anyone within reach of the target
square who has a readied action can try to catch the item, provided the
droid's attack succeeds. (If the attack fails, the item lands in a randomly
determined square adjacent to the target square.) Catching the item requires
a DC 10 Dexterity check and is considered a move action.

Spring-loaded mechanisms are not typically designed (or practical) for
droids of Huge or larger size.

Locked Access

A droid with locked access has its shutdown switch secured or located inter-
nally, preventing it from being shut off by an opponent. The droid must be
disabled or otherwise rendered helpless before it can be shut down.

EQUIPMENT COST WEIGHT AVAILABILITY
Li SASSER RCE Ooo ORE ee a
Heuristic processor 2,000 5 kg
emote processor a ce
5-km range processor 1,000 10 kg -
50-km range processor 10,000 100 kg eo
500-km range processor 100,000 1,000 kg Military
-5,000-km range processor 1,000,000 10,000 kg Mi
Remote receiver -500 1 kg ~
_ Backup processor oo 100 am
Synchronized fire circuits 150 1kg
i = . .
400 4 kg

maximum damage x 20

(maximum damage x 0.1) kg

2.5 kg _
1.5 kg

Improved sensor a 200

- Darkvision

SR5 2,500 x cost factor
ERO Mistaken 5,000 x cost factor
SR 15 7,500 x cost factor
OR a0) 10,000 x cost factor

Military
Military
Millar

(10 x cost factor) kg
(20 x cost factor) kg
(30 x cost factor) kg
(40 x cost factor) kg

DC 20

C15 500
DC 10 1,000
DC 5 : 2,000

1 kg

2kg -
4kg =
8 kg =



--- Page 197 ---
ix Heleva

ARMOR BONUS

MAX. DEX

ARMOR (CHECK PENALTY) COST TO REF DEFENSE BONUS WEIGHT AVAILABILITY
Plasteel shell 400 x cost factor +2 +5 (2 x cost factor) kg _
Quadanium shell 900 x cost factor +3 +4 (3 x cost factor) kg -
Durasteel shell 1,600 x cost factor +4 +4 (8 x cost factor) kg -
Quadanium plating 2,500 x cost factor +5 +3 (10 x cost factor) kg ticensed
+0 (12 x cost factor) kg Licensed

Durasteel plating 3,600 x cost factor +6

Quadanium battle armor 4,900 x cost factor +7

Duranium plating 6,400 x cost factor +8

Durasteel battle armor

Mandalorian steel shell

Duranium battle armor 10,000 x cost factor +10
Neutronium plating 12,100 x cost factor +11

9,600 x cost factor +8

8,100 x cost factor +9

+3 (7 x cost factor) kg Restricted

+2 (16 x cost factor) kg Restricted
Restricted

+3 (8 x cost factor) kg

+3 (9 x cost factor) kg Military, Rare

+2 (10 x cost factor) kg Military
+1 (20 x cost factor) kg Military

1 When running in heavy armor, a droid can only move up to three times its speed (instead of four times).

Secondary Battery

A secondary battery (sometimes called a redundant battery or backup
battery) provides the droid with additional power, allowing it to operate
for a longer duration. The secondary battery enables the droid to remain
operational for 200 hours (instead of the normal 100 hours) before it needs
to shut down and recharge.

Self-Destruct System
To prevent capture and analysis, the droid comes equipped with a powerful
explosive. The charge destroys the droid from within (no attack required),

DROID CosTs

Some droids have their cost reduced or inflated based on other circum-
stances. Although the rules in this chapter provide an accurate means
of determining the cost of a droid, some models may deviate from this
cost. For example, mass production may reduce labor costs, a droid
may be priced to match a competitor, prices may increase due to legal
restrictions for a particular droid (particularly common for 4th-degree
droids), or a manufacturer may have a virtual monopoly on a particular
type of droid that allows higher prices.

and a droid destroyed in this fashion cannot be repaired or salvaged. The
explosion is treated as an area attack (+5 attack bonus). The damage to all
targets with the area is determined by the droid's size (see below), and the
burst radius of the explosion is 2 squares per 4d6 of damage (minimum 2
squares). Droids of Tiny size and smaller do not deal collateral damage when
they self-destruct.

DROID SIZE DAMAGE
Small 4d6
Medium 6d6

Large 8d6

Huge 10d6
Gargantuan or larger 20d6
Sensors

Sensors allow the droid to perceive its surroundings. Most droids are equipped
with a standard sensor array that gives them the visual and auditory acuity
of an average Human. For an additional cost, a droid can be outfitted with
an improved sensor package or with darkvision.

Improved Sensor Package: A droid with an improved sensor package
gains a +2 equipment bonus on Perception checks. In addition, the droid



--- Page 198 ---
gains low-light vision, ignoring concealment (but not total concealment)
from darkness.

Darkvision: The droid with darkvision ignores concealment (including
total concealment) from darkness.

Shield Generator

The droid is fitted with a deflector shield generator—the same type mounted
on starships. Whenever the droid would take damage, reduce the damage
by the droid's shield rating (SR). If the damage is equal to or greater than
the droid's shield rating, the droid's shield rating is reduced by 5. By spend-
ing three swift actions on the same or consecutive rounds, the droid may
make a DC 20 Endurance check to restore lost shield power. If the check
succeeds, the droid's shield rating increases by 5 points (up to its normal
shield rating).

Due to the size and energy requirements of shield generators, only droids
of Small size or larger can be equipped with a SR 10 generator. Only droids of
Medium size or larger can be equipped with a SR 15 generator. Only droids
of Large or bigger size can be equipped with a SR 20 generator.

Translator Unit

The droid is equipped with a device that allows it to understand and convey
information in a variety of languages, including nonverbal ones. When the
droid experiences a form of communication for the first time, it makes an
Intelligence check to determine whether it can identify and understand the
language. The DC is based on the translator unit's database, with the better
units having a lower DC.

MODIFYING DROIDS

A droid can be modified to carry additional equipment simply by attaching
the new equipment to the droid's chassis and connecting the new component
to the droid's processor. Adding equipment increases the droid's weight.
Droids suffer from encumbrance penalties the same way organic characters
do: They slow down. Adding, removing, or replacing the systems on a droid
requires a Mechanics check, the DC set by the type of system.

Locomotion: DC 25 Mechanics check, representing 1 day of work.

Processor: DC 20 Use Computer check and DC 20 Mechanics check,
representing 1 day of work.

Appendage: DC 20 Mechanics check, representing 1 hour of work.

Accessory: DC 15 Mechanics check, representing 1 hour of work.

Tool, Weapon, or Instrument Mounted on an Appendage: DC 15
Mechanics check, representing 10 minutes of work. You take a -5 penalty
on your Mechanics check when installing a weapon on a Ist-, 2nd-, 3rd-,
or 5th-degree droid.

Self-Modification: A droid may install or replace a locomotion system,
appendage, or accessory on itself, but it takes a -5 penalty on its Mechanics
check. A droid cannot replace or install a processor on itself.

SAMPLE DROIDS

The following sample droids are presented as basic models, in their factory-
preset state. The trained skills and feats possessed by a basic model represent
the droid's core programming—characteristics the droid maintains even after
being subjected to a memory wipe (see page 192).

FiRST-DEGREE DROIDS
First-degree droids are usually medical, analytical, or scientific droids.

2-1B Medical Droid

Programmed by some of the finest medical minds in the galaxy, Industrial
Automaton's 2-1B Series was the first commercially successful surgical droid.
Each 2-1B is equipped with a computer interface socket and tether; what it
doesn't know about a patient's species or medical history, it can download
from any medical mainframe.

The 2-1B's servogrip pincer hands are precision-engineered for smooth,
steady action. The core programming of 2-1B surgical droids includes the
“physician's code." This prevents the droid from refusing medical aid to any
being (unless specifically ordered otherwise by an authorized operator), as
well as preventing it from deliberately inflicting harm on an organic creature
(except as defined by extensive guidelines for saving a life). This includes a
stricture against engaging in combat.

2-1B Series droids can be played as droid heroes.

2-1B Medical Droid

Medium droid (1st-degree) nonheroic 2

Init +1; Senses low-light vision; Perception +5

Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 9, Will 12

hp 5; Threshold 9

Immune droid traits

Speed 6 squares (walking)

Melee unarmed +0 (1d3-1)

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square

Base Atk +1; Grp +0

Abilities Str 8, Dex 11, Con —, Int 14, Wis 15, Cha 9

Feats Cybernetic Surgery, Skill Focus (Knowledge [life sciences], Treat
Injury), Skill Training (Use Computer), Surgical Expertise

Skills Knowledge (life sciences) +13, Perception +5, Treat Injury +13, Use
Computer +8

Systems walking locomotion, heuristic processor, 2 hands, improved
sensor package, vocabulator

Availability Licensed; Cost 4,300 credits

CLO

ix -HsSicdvHo

SEQloeEg



--- Page 199 ---
- HeLavHo

SQieas'a)

SECOND-DEGREE DROIDS
Second-degree droids are typically astromech droids and some technical
droids. Specific models include the R2 unit.

R2 Series Astromech Droid

The R2 astromech is Industrial Automaton's most successful series of diag-
nostic and repair droids, largely due to the compact design that enables
it (unlike its predecessors) to fit precisely into the astromech sockets of
starfighters. An R2 unit performs all of the most complex astrogation, flight
data, technical diagnosis, and power management tasks, freeing fighter pilots
to concentrate on staying alive.

The R2 astromech droid is surprisingly versatile for its size. R2s boast
an overwhelming array of tools and sensors, all tucked away behind various
access panels, keeping the housing largely free of obstructions. Industrial
Automaton's designers even found a way to include "wasted space” in
the chassis, allowing internal storage, easy upgrades, and modifications.
Even the four standard appendages (two manipulator arms, an electric
arc welder, and a circular saw) can be quickly and easily switched out
with a number of specialty arms available. The two empty slots are typi-
cally filled with a fire extinguisher and a computer interface probe (for
an additional cost).

Because these droids are quick-witted, sincere, and often insightful, many
owners are reluctant to have their memories wiped, resulting in headstrong,
independent astromech droids.

R2 Series droids can be played as droid heroes.
R2 Series Astromech Droid CLO
Small droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 2
Init +3; Senses darkvision; Perception +3
Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned
Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 11), Fort 8, Will 10
hp 7; Threshold 8
Immune droid traits
Speed 6 squares (wheeled), 4 squares (walking), 9 squares (flying)

Melee electroshock probe +0 (1d8 ion)

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square

Base Atk +1; Grp -4

Abilities Str 9, Dex 14, Con —, Int 15, Wis 10, Cha 7

Feats Skill Focus (Mechanics, Use Computer), Skill Training (Perception),
Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons)

Skills Mechanics +13, Perception +3, Pilot +8, Stealth +6, Use

Computer +13
Systems wheeled locomotion, walking locomotion, flying locomotion

(limited), magnetic feet, heuristic processor, 6 tool appendages, 1 claw

appendage, diagnostics package, internal storage (2 kg), improved
sensor package, darkvision

Possessions astrogation buffer (storage device, 10 memory units),
circular saw, electroshock probe, fire extinguisher, electric arc welder,
holorecorder, holoprojector

Availability Licensed; Cost 4,500 credits

THIRD-DEGREE DROIDS
Third-degree droids are typically protocol droids and replica droids. Specific
models include 3PO series droids and translator droids.

Protocol Droid

Supplied with a SyntheTech AA-1 Verbobrain, the 3PO protocol droid is
capable of storing huge amounts of information, enabling it to understand
over six million forms of communication and respond in nearly all of them. It
also has a tremendous capacity for analyzing previously unknown languages
and translating them into whatever language its master desires. The 3P0
even includes an olfactory sensor for translating pheromonal communica-
tion. The 3PO's additional memory storage is generally used to keep specific
communication modes in active memory, avoiding lengthy delays while
searching for linguistic information in mid-translation.

Each 3PO comes with a factory-installed restraining bolt mount. They
are also programmed for passive behavior—a typical 3PO droid never attacks
under any circumstances. If the droid becomes a problem, the 3PO's shutdown
switch is conveniently located at the back of its neck.

Built to resemble humanoids, 3POs come in a wide variety of colors.

3PO Series protocol droids can be played as droid heroes.

3PO Series Protocol Droid CLO
Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 1

Init -1; Senses Perception +1

Languages Basic, Binary, 3 unassigned

Defenses Ref 9 (flat-footed 9), Fort 9, Will 11

hp 2; Threshold 9

Immune droid traits

Speed 6 squares (walking)

Melee unarmed -1 (1d3-1)


--- Page 200 ---
Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square

Base Atk +0; Grp -1

Abilities Str 8, Dex 9, Con —, Int 12, Wis 13, Cha 15

Feats Linguist, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill Training (Knowledge
[bureaucracy], Knowledge [galactic lore])

Skills Knowledge (bureaucracy) +6, Knowledge (galactic lore) +6,
Knowledge (social sciences) +6, Persuasion +12

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, translator unit (DC 5), 2
hand appendages, vocabulator

Possessions audio recorder

Availability Licensed; Cost 3,000 credits

FOURTH-DEGREE DROIDS
Fourth-degree droids are combat droids. Specific models include battle droids,
destroyer droids, security droids, war droids, probe droids, and assassin droids.

B1 Series Battle Droid
Frail in appearance but deadly in intent, Baktoid Combat Automata's battle
droid is a metal skeleton with a blaster. Built by the Geonosians to the Trade
Federation's specifications, battle droids are designed to resemble Geonosians,
or perhaps desiccated Neimoidian corpses. Most intelligent beings regard them
as startling, but Neimoidians see battle droids as positively ghoulish.

Battle droids are drones controlled by a remote processor, taking their
commands from a Central Control Computer that operates several thousand
battle droids, destroyer droids, and droid starfighters simultaneously. A battle
droid communicates with its fellow drones via comlinks, transmission anten-
nae, and encryption computers, making for a control signal that is nearly
impossible to jam (DC 40 Mechanics check).

B1 Series Battle Droids can't be played as droid heroes.

B1 Series Battle Droid GL 1

Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 3

Init +0; Senses Perception +6

Languages Basic, Binary

Defenses Ref 9 (flat-footed 9), Fort 11, Will 11

hp 10; Threshold 11

Immune droid traits

Speed 6 squares (walking)

Melee unarmed +3 (1d3+1)

Ranged blaster carbine +1 (3d8)

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square

Base Atk +2; Grp +3

Abilities Str 13, Dex 9, Con —, Int 9, Wis 10, Cha 10

Feats Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, heavy weapons,
simple weapons)

Skills Perception +6
Systems walking locomotion, remote processor, 2 hand appendages,
internal comlink, vocabulator Y
Possessions blaster carbine
Availability Military; Cost 1,800 credits

B2 Series Super Battle Droid

The B2 Series Super Battle Droid is a marked improvement in the original
B1 Series Battle Droid design. Larger and armored, the Super Battle Droid
relies on a central control computer for guidance, but it doesn't deactivate
when it loses contact with the remote processor thanks to a backup internal
processor—a droid brain that takes over when the droid loses communica-
tion with the central computer. This second brain allows the droid to store
its last set of orders and continue acting on them even after the remote
processor has shut down.

Super Battle Droids can be played as droid heroes.

B2 Series Super Battle Droid CL?
Medium droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 6

Init +3; Senses Perception +8

Languages Basic, Binary

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 12, Will 10

hp 21; Threshold 12

Immune droid traits

ix HSidvHoe

|
9
9
0



--- Page 201 ---
Ix HSStavyna

SQlEOHNaE)

Speed 6 squares (walking)

Melee unarmed +6 (1d3+1)

Ranged wrist blasters +4 (3d8) or

Ranged wrist blasters +2 (4d8) with Rapid Fire

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square

Base Atk +4; Grp +6

Atk Options autofire (wrist blasters), Charging Fire, Rapid Fire, aid
another (+4)

Abilities Str 14, Dex 11, Con —, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 7

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Charging Fire, Rapid Shot, Toughness,
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles, simple)

Skills Perception +8

Systems walking locomotion, remote receiver, backup processor,
synchronized fire circuits, 2 hand appendages, integrated comlink,
vocabulator, plasteel shell (+2 armor)

Possessions wrist blasters (as blaster rifle)

Availability Military; Cost 3,300 credits

“T's AGAINST MY
PROGRAMMING TO
IMPERSONATE A
DEITY.”

Droideka Series Destroyer Droid

Designed and built by the Geonosians of Geonosis and the Collicoids of
Colla IV, the Droideka Series destroyer droids reflect the savage ferocity of
their makers.

The main propulsion method of destroyer droids is a microrepulsor-
assisted wheel mode that allows a destroyer droid to fold itself into a roughly
wheel-shaped package and roll along at high speeds. Though lightning-
swift in this mode, destroyer droids are considerably more ponderous when
unfolded for combat.

Destroyer droids have two heavy repeating blasters that can lay down a
devastating barrage. To augment its bronzium armor shell, a destroyer droid
also comes equipped with a deflector shield generator. The tremendous
energy drain of the blasters and shields necessitates that the destroyer droid
be equipped with a minireactor.

Destroyer droids can't be played as droid heroes.

Droideka Series Destroyer Droid CL4

Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 12

Init +8; Senses Perception +13

Languages Basic, Binary

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 13, Will 10

hp 40; SR 20; Threshold 18

Immune droid traits

Speed 2 squares (walking), 10 squares (wheeled)

Melee unarmed +12 (1d4+3)

Ranged 2 laser cannons +11 (3d8) or

Ranged 2 laser cannons +9 (4d8) with Rapid Shot or

Ranged 2 laser cannons +6 (5d8) with Burst Fire

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square

Base Atk +9; Grp +17

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), Burst Fire, Point-Blank Shot, Rapid Shot

Abilities Str 16, Dex 14, Con —, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 7

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Burst Fire, Point-Blank Shot, Rapid Shot,
Dual Weapon Mastery I, Dual Weapon Mastery II, Weapon Proficiency
(heavy weapons, rifles, simple weapons)

Skills Perception +13, Stealth -3

Systems walking locomotion, wheeled locomotion (exclusive), remote
receiver, 2 tool appendages, shield generator (SR 20), integrated
comlink, bronzium shell (+5 armor; treat as quadanium plating)

Possessions 2 laser cannons (treat as blaster rifles)

Availability Military; Cost 21,000 credits

Dwarf Spider Droid

In the Battle of Geonosis, the Commerce Guild deployed forces of dwarf
spider droids. Larger than a standard battle droid and armed with a powerful
blaster cannon, the dwarf spider droid gives mobile heavy weapon support
to advancing infantry.

The original function of dwarf spider droids was to root out hidden mining
operations. The Commerce Guild requires a tribute payment for all commercial
operations within its borders; however, small independent operations often
dig within Commerce Guild borders and attempt to smuggle the precious
ore into a neutral region, avoiding tribute payments. Dwarf spider droids are
equipped to descend down rocky crags like those found inside rough-hewn
mine shafts, to catch offenders red-handed before they can reach the safety
of the Commerce Guild border. Commerce Guild star cruisers also carry com-
pliments of dwarf spider droids for security and tribute enforcement.

Dwarf Spider Droid CL3
Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 9

Init +3; Senses darkvision; Perception +12

Languages Basic, Binary



--- Page 202 ---
Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 13), Fort 16, Will 11

hp 32; Threshold 26

Immune droid traits

Speed 8 squares (walking)

Melee unarmed +8* (1d6+10)

Ranged blaster cannon +5 (6d8)

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square

Base Atk +6; Grp +17

Atk Options Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Power Attack

Abilities Str 22, Dex 9, Con —, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 8

Special Qualities stability

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Far Shot, Improved Damage Threshold,
Point Blank Shot, Power Attack, Skill Focus (Perception), Weapon
Proficiency (heavy weapons, simple weapons)

Skills Climb +6 (may reroll, may take 10 when threatened),
Perception +12, Stealth -6

Systems walking locomotion (extra legs), climbing claws, magnetic feet,
remote receiver, darkvision, improved sensor package, locked access, 1
tool appendage, quadanium plating (+5 armor)

Possessions blaster cannon

Availability Military; Cost 8,500 credits

Stability—A dwarf spider droid gains a +5 stability bonus on checks made
to resist being knocked prone.

* Includes 4 points of Power Attack

Crab Droid

Introduced late in the Clone Wars, the crab droids used by the Confederacy
of Independent Systems were designed to function as advanced scouts and
trailblazers in harsh environments. Nicknamed "muckrakers” by the clone
trooper legions they faced, crab droids were often used on wet, swampy
worlds where they could use their powerful vacuum system to clear a path
for battle droids to follow.

Crab droids range in size from 2 meters tall for the scout models to 6
meters tall for the assault models. They have metal armor plating on the out-
side and multiple jointed legs that grant them great stability and flexibility.
Though they are well protected from incoming fire, they do have weak spots
atop their central bodies that, while difficult to reach, leave vital equipment
and computer systems exposed to anyone brave enough to get that close.

Crab droids can't be played as droid heroes.
Crab Droid Scout CL4
Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic 12
Init +5; Senses Perception +13
Languages Basic, Binary
Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 18), Fort 17, Will 12

hp 80; Threshold 42

Immune droid traits

Speed 6 squares (walking), climb 3 squares

Melee claw +16* (1d6+15) or

Melee claw +20* (1d6+21) with Powerful Charge

Ranged twin blaster +8 (310)

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square

Base Atk +9; Grp +21

Atk Options Power Attack

Abilities Str 24, Dex 9, Con —, Int 10, Wis 14, Cha 8

Special Qualities stability

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium, heavy), Crush, Pin, Power Attack,
Powerful Charge, Weapon Proficiency (rifles, simple weapons)

Skills Climb +8 (may reroll, may take 10 when threatened),
Perception +13, Stealth -6

Systems walking locomotion (extra legs), climbing claws, heuristic
processor, 2 claw appendages, hardened systems x5, duranium battle
armor (+10 armor)

Possessions twin blaster (treat as heavy blaster rifle)

Availability Military; Cost 20,000 credits

Stability—A crab droid gains a +5 stability bonus on checks made to resist
being knocked prone.

* Includes 8 points of Power Attack

IG-100 Series Bodyguard Droid

Manufactured by Holowan Mechanicals, the first |G-100 Series MagnaGuard
droids were custom-built to General Grievous's specifications. Quick and
deadly, the MagnaGuards are designed to protect their charge to their own
destruction. MagnaGuard droids have thick metal plating covering a wiry
endoskeleton and have specially designed arms that are adept at wielding
melee weapons.

A MagnaGuard droid can't be played as a droid hero.
IG-100 Series MagnaGuard CL6
Medium droid (4th-degree) soldier 6
Force 1
Init +9; Senses darkvision; Perception +12
Languages Basic, Binary, 2 unassigned
Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 17, Will 18 V
hp 53; Threshold 17
Immune droid traits
Speed 6 squares (walking)

Melee electrostaff +8 (2d8+6)
Melee electrostaff +3 (2d8+6) and
electrostaff +3 (2d8+6)

Ix SStavHa

SQielhG



--- Page 203 ---
ap wa

ea Gs Va eas wy ws Sy wey sy.

SQie!'G)

1G-100 SERIES MAGNAGUARD

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square

Base Atk +6; Grp +7

Atk Options Improved Disarm, Melee Defenses

Special Actions Harm's way, Indomitable

Abilities Str 13, Dex 13, Con —, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 10

Talents Harm's Way, Indomitable, Weapon Specialization (advanced melee
weapons)

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Improved Disarm, Melee Defenses,
Toughness, Dual Weapon Mastery |, Weapon Focus (advanced melee
weapons), Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles,
simple weapons)

Skills Climb +9, Endurance +8, Initiative +9, Jump +9, Perception +12

Systems walking locomotion, magnetic feet, heuristic processor, 2

hand appendages, telescopic appendage (1 hand), darkvision,
improved sensor package, locked access, secondary
battery

Possessions electrostaff

Availability Restricted; Cost 19,000 credits

Viper Series Probe Droid
Before the rise of the Empire, probe droids—often
referred to as probots—were used primarily to
map space lanes, survey planets, and perform
search-and-rescue operations. However, such
friendly purposes fell by the wayside as the Emperor
conquered more and more systems. Probots became
tools for rooting out traitors on far-flung worlds. Arakyd
Industries manufactures the Empire's favored model, the

Arakyd Viper, for this very purpose.

Equipped with an extensive sensor system, the Viper is either denied
directly from the ground or fitted with an optional delivery system that
guides the probot from a ship to the designated planet. The delivery system
possesses only rudimentary breaking capabilities, so it includes buffers to
prevent damage to the droid on impact. These are especially important, since
the Imperial Viper's self-destruct system is designed to destroy the droid if it
takes significant damage (to prevent it from falling into enemy hands). The
sublight delivery system costs an additional 5,000 credits; a hyperspace-
capable version sells for 15,000 credits.

Viper Series probe droids can't be played as droid heroes.

Viper Series Probe Droid CL
Large droid (4th-degree) scout 1

Init +6; Senses darkvision, low-light vision; Perception +9

Languages Basic, Binary, 1 unassigned



--- Page 204 ---
Defenses Ref 14 (flat-footed 13), Fort 14, Will 13
hp 34; Threshold 19
Immune droid traits

Speed 6 squares (hovering)

Melee unarmed +4 (1d6+4)

Ranged blaster +1 (3d6)

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square

Base Atk +0; Grp +9

Special Actions self-destruct (+5 area attack, 4d6, 2-square burst)

Abilities Str 18, Dex 12, Con —, Int 12, Wis 15, Cha 11

Talents Acute Senses

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Weapon Proficiency (blaster pistols,
simple weapons, slugthrowers)

Skills Endurance +5, Initiative +6, Perception +9, Stealth +1, Survival +7,
Use Computer +6

Systems hovering locomotion, basic processor, 2 hand appendages, 2 claw
appendages, 2 tool appendages, improved sensor package, darkvision,
self-destruct system (4d6), locked access, integrated comlink,
durasteel shell (+4 armor)

Possessions sensor unit, video recording unit, blaster (treat as blaster pistol)

Availability Restricted; Cost 18,500 credits

Fire TH-DEGREE DROIDS
Fifth-degree droids are typically utility droids with low-level functions.
Specific models include labor droids and power droids.

ASP Labor Droid

ASP Series labor droids are common throughout the galaxy. They perform a
variety of simple tasks, including maintenance, repair, sanitation, delivery,
and simple hard labor. Cheap and effective, they are designed as “entry-level”
droids for first-time buyers. Many ASP owners modify the droids heavily
instead of actually replacing them.

ASPs are built for strength and sturdiness, not intelligence. Since the main
virtue of the ASP is versatility, it's programmed with only the most basic
functions—leaving the owner to instruct the droid in its specific duties.

ASP Series droids can be played as droid heroes.

ASP Series Labor Droid CLO
Medium droid (5th-degree) nonheroic 2

Init +2; Senses Perception +1

Languages Basic, Binary

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 13, Will 10

hp 5; Threshold 13

Immune droid traits

Speed 6 squares (walking)

Melee claw +4 (1d4+3)

Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square

Base Atk +1; Grp +4

Abilities Str 17, Dex 12, Con —, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 5

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Skill Focus (Endurance), Skill Training
(Mechanics), 1 unassigned

Skills Endurance +11, Mechanics +4

Systems walking locomotion, basic processor, 2 claw appendages,
durasteel shell (+4 armor)

Availability Licensed; Cost 1,000 credits
Place near the "Droideka" stats:

ix HSaldavHoD

SQiella@



--- Page 205 ---
CHAPTER x



--- Page 206 ---
Prestige classes offer abilities and powers otherwise inaccessible to heroes
and GM characters, focusing them in specific directions. A character with
a prestige class is generally more specialized, yet perhaps slightly more
powerful, than a character without one.

A character can't begin as a member of a prestige class. Abilities granted
by prestige classes are acquired only by meeting the requirements specific
to each example, which almost always demand—in effect—that a character
be at least mid-level. Additionally, there may be non-rules-related require-
ments that must be met in-game, such as group membership fees, special
training exercises, or quests.

Prestige classes are purely optional, and always under the purview of the
GM. Even though a few examples can be found below, they are idiosyncratic
to each campaign, and thus many GMs may choose to not allow them or only
use them for GM characters.

PRESTIGE CLASSES

Table 12-1: Prestige Classes summarizes the prestige classes described in

this chapter. Some prestige classes (such as the crime lord, Sith apprentice,

and Sith Lord) are more appropriate for GM characters, and the Gamemas-
_ ter may declare these classes off-limits to heroes. For this reason, a player
should consult with her GM before angling her character toward a particular
prestige class.

Requirements: All prestige classes have certain requirements that a
character must fulfill prior to taking the first level in that class. Among |
the most common requirements are a minimum character level, a minimum /
base attack bonus, being trained in certain skills, or having certain feats. |
These requirements make it easier for certain types of characters to become |
members of a given prestige class. For example, a scout could potentially
» take his first level of bounty hunter as an 8th-level character. | |

ux HYSsiavHgo



--- Page 207 ---
:

Sessevi© Fgel.LsaHe)

PRESTIGE CLASS BASIC DESCRIPTION

Bounty hunter Expert at locating and capturing fugitives

Elite trooper Highly trained soldier or bodyguard

Force disciple Master of the deepest mysteries of the Force

Jedi Knight Galactic defender who follows the Jedi code

Officer Leader of a military task force or group

Sith Lord Powerful master of the dark side

ACE PILOT

The ace pilot is to vehicle combat what the elite trooper is to personal
weapons combat. Her arms and armor are the weapons and shields of a
sleek starship soaring through space or an airspeeder shrieking through the
atmosphere. A veteran of countless engagements, the ace pilot has proven
her skill again and again by virtue of facing the enemy and surviving—and
making sure the enemy did not. She has several kills to her credit, and her
combat maneuvers are occasionally studied and discussed in training acad-
emies for their ingenuity and effectiveness.

For her part, the ace pilot only feels truly alive in the cockpit, where she can
pit herself against her peers in a life-and-death contest to see who is the better
pilot. For some ace pilots, the contest is enough, and they don't care whether
they win or simply get away with their lives. For others, the important thing is
the kill. The adrenaline surge they feel when finishing off an enemy brings them
back again and again. The best ace pilots learn to stop enemies without destroying
them, but those aces are rare, and their exploits are legendary.

Ace pilots define themselves by the vehicles they fly. Some are starfighter
aces, while others fly space transports. Ace pilots can also be found at the
controls of a Podracer, Coruscant air taxi, or even a large assault vehicle
such as an AT-AT.

EXAMPLES OF ACE PILOT IN
STAR WARS

Han Solo, Wedge Antilles, Sebulba, Wes Jansen, Tycho Celchu, Baron Fel,
Corran Horn.

REQUIREMENTS
To qualify to become an ace pilot, a character must fulfill the following

criteria.
Minimum Heroic Level: thy
Trained Skills: Pilot.

Feats: Vehicular Combat.

GAME RULE INFORMATION
Ace pilots have the following game statistics.

Hit Points
At each level, ace pilots gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitution modifier.

Force Points
Ace pilots gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their character
level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class.

CLASS FEATURES
The following are features of the ace pilot prestige class.

BASE ATTACK

LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES

2nd +1 Vehicle dodge +1

4th +3 Vehicle dodge +2

6th ad Vehicle dodge +3

8th +6 Vehicle dodge +4

10th +7 Vehicle dodge +5


--- Page 208 ---
Defense Bonuses
At 1st level, ace pilots gain a +4 class bonus to their Reflex Defense and a
+2 class bonus to their Fortitude Defense.

Talents
At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on), the ace pilot selects
a talent. This talent may be selected from the Expert Pilot or Gunner talent
trees (see below) or from the Spacer talent tree (see page 47).

The ace pilot must meet the prerequisites (if any) of the
chosen talent. No talent can be selected more than once
unless expressly indicated.

EXPERT PILOT TALENT TREE

The ace pilot relies on finely honed instincts and years
of pilot training to outmaneuver and destroy enemy
starships.

Elusive Dogfighter: When engaged in a dogfight,
any enemy pilot engaged in the same dogfight takes
a -10 penalty on attack rolls when you succeed
on the opposed Pilot check (see Attacking in a
Dogfight, page 171).

Full Throttle: You can take 10 on Pilot checks
made to increase your vehicle's speed (see the
Pilot skill description, page 71). In addition,
when you use the all-out movement action
while piloting a vehicle, your vehicle moves
up to five times its normal speed (instead
of the normal x4).

Juke: When you fight defensively as
the pilot of a vehicle (see page 171), the
dodge bonus to your vehicle's Reflex Defense
increases to +5 even if you make an attack.

Prerequisite: Vehicular Evasion.

Keep It Together: Once per encounter, when a
vehicle you're piloting takes damage that equals or
exceeds its damage threshold, your vehicle avoids
moving down the condition track (see Conditions,
page 148).

Relentless Pursuit: You may roll twice for any
opposed Pilot check made to initiate a dogfight,
keeping the better result (see Dogfight, page 171).

Vehicular Evasion: If the vehicle you are piloting
is hit by an area attack (see Area Attacks, page 155),
it takes half damage if the attack hits. If the area attack misses
your vehicle, it takes no damage. You cannot use this talent
when your vehicle is stationary or disabled.

GUNNER TALENT TREE
Many starship gunners are skilled both in and out of the cockpit and are
deadly with ranged weapons of any kind.

Dogfight Gunner: While your vehicle is engaged in a dogfight, you take
no penalty on your attack rolls with vehicle weapons even if you are not
the pilot.

Prerequisite: Expert Gunner.

Expert Gunner: You gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls made using vehicle
weapons.

Quick Trigger: Whenever an enemy vehicle moves out of your square or
an adjacent square, you may make a single attack against that vehicle as an
attack of opportunity.

Prerequisite: Expert Gunner.

System Hit: Whenever you deal damage to a vehicle that equals or
exceeds its damage threshold, you move that vehicle an additional -1
step on the condition track (see Conditions, page 148).

Prerequisite: Expert Gunner.

Vehicle Dodge

Beginning at 2nd level, you apply a dodge bonus to the Reflex

Defense of any vehicle you pilot. The dodge bonus is
equal to one-half your class level, rounded down. Any

condition that makes you lose your Dexterity bonus to

Reflex Defense also makes you lose dodge bonuses.
Also, dodge bonuses stack with each other, unlike

most other types of bonuses.

BOUNTY
HUNTER

The bounty hunter capitalizes on the vendet-
tas of others, tracking down fugitives for
their enemies, their masters, or simply for
justice. The best bounty hunters are the
ones who can stay emotionally detached
from either their employers or their
quarry—although bounty hunters who
hate their prey often make more spec-
tacular kills.

Not all bounty hunters kill. Some
employers reserve that pleasure for them-
selves, or plan to give the quarry a more or less

fair trial. Some bounty hunters have reservations about taking

lives unnecessarily. Regardless of his methods, a bounty hunter still has

to produce the quarry in order to receive payment. Overkill is generally
not a good idea.

MALE SULLUSTAN ACE PILOT

ix YStagwvwHoD

Uv
2)
a
J
6
W
Q
[(P
>
t
0)
0)



--- Page 209 ---
ix SsiagvHo

t

{

SesseVv7If FBeissshe)

Hunter talent tree (presented below), the Misfortune talent tree (see
page 46), or the Awareness talent tree (see page 49). You must meet

the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can be

selected more than once unless expressly indicated.

At one time, organized bounty hunter guilds apportioned contracts
and policed their membership. They dwindled in both power and
organization during the rise of Emperor Palpatine.

Whether working alone or in groups, bounty hunters revel in
the thrill of the hunt. Given the nature of their work, it goes
without saying that few bounty hunters die of boredom.

BOUNTY HUNTER TALENT TREE
The nature of their work requires bounty hunters to
associate with the scum of the universe. You are
among the finest bounty hunters in the galaxy,
relying on the element of surprise and your hunter's

instincts to catch your prey.

Hunter's Mark: If you aim before making a
ranged attack (see Aim, page 154), you move the

target -1 step along the condition track if the attack

hits (see Conditions, page 148).

Hunter's Target: Once per encounter as a
free action, you may designate an opponent. For
the rest of the encounter, when you succeed on
a melee or ranged attack against that opponent,
you gain a bonus on damage rolls equal to your
class level.

Prerequisite: Hunter's Mark.

Notorious: Your skill as a bounty hunter is
known throughout the galaxy, even on fringe
worlds. When you are not disguised, you can
reroll any Persuasion checks made to intimidate
others, keeping the better result (see the Persua-

sion skill, page 71).

Nowhere to Hide: You may choose to reroll any
Gather Information checks made to locate a specific
individual (see the Gather Information skill, page 67),
but you must keep the result of the reroll even if it is
worse.

Relentless: This talent applies only to an opponent
you've designated as your hunter's target (see Hunter's

Target, above). Any attack or effect originating from

the target that would normally move you along the

condition track (see page 149) does not, in fact, move
you along the condition track.
Prerequisites: Hunter's Mark, Hunter's Target.

Ruthless Negotiator: When haggling over the price of a
bounty (see the Persuasion skill, page 71), you can reroll your
Persuasion check and keep the better result.

Prerequisite: Notorious.

EXAMPLES OF BOUNTY
HUNTERS IN STAR WARS
Aurra Sing, Boba Fett, Bossk, Dengar, 4-LOM, Greedo, IG-88,
Zuckuss.

REQUIREMENTS
To qualify to become a bounty hunter, a character must fulfill
the following criteria.

Minimum Heroic Level: Thy?

Trained Skills: Survival.

Talents: At least two talents from the Awareness
talent tree (see page 49).

GAME RULE
INFORMATION
Bounty hunters have the following
game statistics.

Hit Points

At each level, bounty hunters gain
1d10 hit points + their Constitution
modifier.

Force Points
Bounty hunters gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half
their character level, rounded down, every time they gain a new
level in this class.

CLASS FEATURES
The following are features of the bounty hunter prestige class.

Defense Bonuses
At 1st level, you gain a +4 class bonus to your Reflex Defense
and a +2 class bonus to your Fortitude Defense.

Talents
At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on), you

select a talent. The talent may be selected from the Bounty

MALE QUARREN BOUNTY HUNTER

¥


--- Page 210 ---
BASE ATTACK

LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES

2nd +2 Familiar foe +1

4th +4 Familiar foe +2

6th +6 Familiar foe +3

8th +8 Familiar foe +4

10th +10 Familiar foe +5

Familiar Foe

By observing your enemy in combat, you know how to defeat him more
easily. If you spend a full-round action observing an opponent in combat,
you gain a bonus on attack rolls against that opponent and a bonus to
your Reflex Defense against attacks made by that opponent equal to one-
half your class level (rounded down). The effects last until the end of the
encounter. You cannot use this ability until after your opponent has acted
during the combat.

CRIME LORD

Few societies manage to eradicate crime altogether. In the underworld,
someone always rises to the top, either through vision, organization, or sheer
intimidation. The life of a crime lord isn't for the timid. After conquering an
unseen empire, the crime lord wages a daily struggle not only to stay on top
but also to stay alive.

Of course, not every crime lord is bent on corrupting society and making
a profit. Some use their criminal connections to wage lucrative guerilla
wars against tyrants and despots. Indeed, some of the lesser-known heroes
of the Rebellion began as smugglers or pirates, and eventually rose through
the ranks of their organization to provide a more noble direction for their
groups’ activities. Although some did so to remove an obstacle to making
more money, others recognized that ridding the galaxy of the Empire's evil
was a more important long-term goal.

Problematically, crime lords are notoriously bad at cooperating with one
another. The head of any given criminal empire has as much to fear from a
gang war as he does from internal dissent and ambitious underlings. Even
those with altruistic intentions sometimes learn the hard way that their
troops are more interested in gaining power and wealth than saving the
galaxy from greater evils.

EXAMPLES OF CRIME LORDS IN
STAR WARS

Jabba the Hutt, Prince Xizor, Talon Karrde, Ploovo Two-for-One, Davik Kang,
GO-TO.

REQUIREMENTS
To qualify to become a crime lord, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Minimum Heroic Level: 7th. Y
Trained Skills: Deception, Persuasion.

Talents: At least one talent from the Fortune, Lineage, or Misfortune
talent tree (see pages 44 and 46).

GAME RULE INFORMATION
Crime lords have the following game statistics.

BASE ATTACK

LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES

2nd +1 Command cover, talent

4th +3 Talent

6th +4 Talent

8th +6 Talent

10th +7 Talent



--- Page 211 ---
Hix HSLdGVHo

SsssYiVe PGoIi,sEe)

Hit Points Shared Notoriety: When your minions invoke your name, others take
At each level, crime lords gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitu- note. If you have minions (see the Attract Minion talent, below),
tion modifier. they may reroll any Persuasion checks made to intimidate others
(see the Persuasion skill, page 71), but the result of the reroll must
be accepted even if it is worse.
Prerequisite: Notorious.

Force Points

Crime lords gain a number of Force Points
equal to 6 + one-half their character level,
rounded down, every time they gain a new
level in this class.

MASTERMIND TALENT TREE
You have the ability to attract loyal minions and are
skilled at redirecting allies on the battlefield.
Attract Minion: You attract a loyal minion.
The minion is a nonheroic character (see page 277)
with a class level equal to three-quarters of your
character level, rounded down.

You may select this talent multiple times;
each time you select this talent, you gain another
minion. Normally, you can have only one minion
with you at a time. Any other minions you have

are assumed to be looking after your various
interests. If you lose a minion, you can send for
another minion if you have one (although normal travel
time still applies).

Each minion that accompanies you on an adventure is
entitled to an equal share of the total experience points
earned for the adventure. For example, a minion that

accompanies a party of five heroes on an adventure
receives one-sixth of the XP that the group earns.

Impel Ally I: You can spend a swift action to grant
one ally the ability to move its normal speed. The ally

must move immediately on your turn, before you do

anything else, or else the opportunity is wasted. You
can use this talent up to three times on your turn
(spending a swift action each time).

Impel Ally Il: You can spend two swift actions to
grant one ally the ability to take a standard action
or move action. The ally must act immediately on

your turn, before you do anything else, or else the
opportunity is wasted.
Prerequisite: Impel Ally |.

CLASS FEATURES
The following are features of the crime lord prestige
class.

Defense Bonuses
At 1st level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex Defense
and a +4 class bonus to your Will Defense.

Talents
At 1st level and each level thereafter, you select a talent. The talent
must be selected from the Infamy or Mastermind talent trees (pre-
sented below) or the Influence talent tree (see page 43). You must
meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can

be selected more than once unless expressly indicated.

INFAMY TALENT TREE

You are wanted in multiple systems for criminal acts, and your
manner of doing business has earned you an unsavory reputation
in the criminal underworld.

Inspire Fear |: Your infamy and reputation are such that any
opponent whose level is equal to or less than your character
level takes a -1 penalty on attack rolls and opposed skill checks
made against you, as well as Use the Force checks made to
activate Force powers that target you. This is a mind-affect-
ing fear effect.

Inspire Fear II: As Inspire Fear | (see above), except that
the penalty increases to -2.

Prerequisite: Inspire Fear |.

Inspire Fear Ill: As Inspire Fear | (see above), except that
the penalty increases to -5.

Prerequisites: Inspire Fear |, Inspire Fear II.

Notorious: Your reputation as a crime lord is known
throughout the galaxy, even on fringe worlds. When you are
not disguised, you may reroll any Persuasion checks made to your Reflex Defense for each ally that is adjacent to you,

intimidate others, keeping the better result (see the Persuasion up to a maximum bonus equal to one-half your class level
skill, page 71). (maximum +5 at 10th level).

MALE RODIAN CRIME LORD

Command Cover
Starting at 2nd level, you can use your allies to
shield you from harm. You gain a +1 cover bonus to


--- Page 212 ---
ELITE TROOPER

The elite trooper represents an individual who has received advanced combat
training. More than a mere soldier, the elite trooper is highly trained and
capable of taking on any number of combat-related missions, such as guard-
ing an important location, assaulting an enemy base, or participating in a
stealthy insertion into enemy territory. She's a crack shot and, though trained
in the use of armor, can easily operate without it if the situation warrants.
When the fighting gets particularly brutal, the elite trooper can dispatch
foes hand-to-hand as easily as she does with a blaster.

Elite troopers exist in a variety of roles, but unlike Imperial stormtroop-
ers—the “elite troops" of the Empire—they rely on skill and ingenuity more
than sheer force and blind obedience to the Emperor's will. Thus, the best
missions for them involve penetrating attacks deep behind enemy lines,
or guerilla warfare conducted on enemy-held worlds—situations where
versatility and sheer determination are the elite trooper's best armaments
and armor.

EXAMPLES OF ELITE

TROOPERS IN STAR WARS

General Madine, Major Derlin, Kyle Katarn, Lieutenant Page, Kell Tainer, ARC
Trooper Alpha-02.

REQUIREMENTS
To qualify to become an elite trooper, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Base Attack Bonus: +7.

Feats: Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency (medium), Martial
Arts |, Point Blank Shot.

Talents: At least one talent from the Armor Specialist, Commando, or
Weapon Specialist talent trees (see pages 51-53).

GAME RULE INFORMATION
Elite troopers have the following game statistics.

Hit Points
At each level, elite troopers gain 1d12 hit points + their Constitution
modifier.

Force Points
Elite troopers gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their char-
acter level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class.

CLASS FEATURES
The following are features of the elite trooper prestige class.

BASE ATTACK

LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES

2nd +2 Damage reduction 1

4th +4 Damage reduction 2

6th +6 Damage reduction 3

8th +8 Damage reduction 4

10th +10 Damage reduction 5

Defense Bonuses

At 1st level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex Defense and a +4 class
bonus to your Fortitude Defense.

Delay Damage
Elite troopers are among the toughest individuals in the galaxy. After being
exposed to numerous threats, foes, and combat situations, you've developed
the ability to delay effects that would drop lesser creatures.

Once per encounter as a reaction, you can choose to delay the effect of a
single attack, ability, or effect used against you. The damage or effect does
not take hold until the end of your next turn.

Talents

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on), you select a talent.
The talent may be selected from the Weapon Master talent tree (presented
below), the Commando talent tree (page 52), or the Camouflage talent tree
(page 49). You must meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No
talent can be selected more than once unless expressly indicated.

WEAPON MASTER TALENT TREE
You are skilled at wielding a variety of weapons and can wield choice weapons
with deadly precision and force.



--- Page 213 ---
ix SesiavHa

SesevI® seILssee)

Controlled Burst: Your penalty when making an autofire attack
or using the Burst Fire feat is reduced to -2. In addition, if
you brace an autofire-only weapon, you have no penalty
on your attack roll.

Exotic Weapon Mastery: You are considered profi-
cient with any exotic weapon, even if you don't possess the
appropriate Exotic Weapon Proficiency feat.

Greater Devastating Attack: Choose a single
exotic weapon or weapon group with which
you're proficient. Whenever you make a suc-
cessful attack against a target using the chosen
exotic weapon or a weapon from the chosen
group, you treat your target's damage threshold
as if it were 10 points lower when determining
the result of your attack. This replaces the effects
of the Devastating Attack talent (see page 53).

Prerequisites: Greater Weapon Focus, Devas-
tating Attack (see page 53), and Weapon Focus
feat (see page 89) with the chosen exotic weapon
or weapon group.

Greater Penetrating Attack: Choose a single
exotic weapon or weapon group with
which you're proficient. Whenever
you make a successful attack against
a target using the chosen exotic
weapon or a weapon from the chosen
group, you treat your target's damage reduction
as if it were 10 points lower when determining the
result of your attack. This replaces the effects of the
Penetrating Attack talent (see page 53).

Prerequisites: Greater Weapon Focus, Penetrating
Attack (see page 53), and Weapon Focus feat (see
page 89) with the chosen exotic weapon or weapon
group.

Greater Weapon Focus: Choose one exotic
weapon or weapon group with which you're profi-
cient. You gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls with the
chosen exotic weapon or a weapon from the chosen
group. This bonus stacks with the bonus granted by the
Weapon Focus feat (page 89). You must be proficient
with the weapon to gain this benefit.

You may select this talent multiple times. Each
time you select this talent, it applies to a different
weapon group.

Prerequisites: Weapon Focus feat (see page 89)
with chosen exotic weapon or weapon group.

Greater Weapon Specialization: Choose one exotic weapon or one of
the following weapon groups: advanced melee weapons, heavy weapons,
pistols, rifles, simple weapons. You gain a +2 bonus on damage rolls with
the chosen exotic weapon or a weapon from the chosen group. This bonus
stacks with the bonus granted by the Weapon Specialization talent (page
53). You must be proficient with the weapon to gain this benefit.

You may select this talent multiple times. Each time you select this talent,
it applies to a different weapon group.

Prerequisites: Greater Weapon Focus, Weapon Focus feat (see page

89), and Weapon Specialization (see page 53) with the chosen exotic

weapon or weapon group.

Multiattack Proficiency (heavy weapons): Whenever you make
multiple attacks with any type of heavy weapon as a full attack action
(see Full Attack, page 154), you reduce the penalty on your attack rolls
by 2.

You can take this talent multiple times; each time you take this talent,
you reduce the penalty on your attack rolls by an additional 2.

Multiattack Proficiency (rifles): Whenever you make multiple attacks
with any type of rifle as a full attack action (see Full Attack, page 154),
you reduce the penalty on your attack rolls by 2.

You can take this talent multiple times; each time you take this talent,
you reduce the penalty on your
attack rolls by an additional 2.

Damage Reduction
At 2nd level, you gain damage
reduction 1 (DR 1), which means that you reduce the damage you take from
any attack by 1 (see Damage Reduction, page 158).

At every even-numbered level after 2nd, your damage reduction improves
by 1 (DR 2 at 4th level, DR 3 at 6th level, and so on).

FORCE ADEPT

The Force adept is strong in the Force but follows a different path than
that of the Jedi. To the Force adept, the Force and the aid it provides are
more mysterious, more supernatural. A Force adept comes from a different
tradition, with different beliefs and codes of conduct than those of the Jedi,
There are precious few Force adepts in the galaxy, and even fewer become
adventurers. Some call the Force by its familiar name, while others refer to
it by some other term entirely.

Some Force adepts become adventurers as part of a quest to learn more
about the Force (or whatever they choose to call it). Others do so out of
necessity. They are forced from their world, hunted by unscrupulous agents,
or are interested in what the galaxy might have to offer them. Force adepts
might be called wizards, shamans, witches, or prophets, depending on where
they come from and what traditions they follow. Most Force adepts follow

FEMALE HUMAN ELITE TROOPER


--- Page 214 ---
the light side (or at least their version of it), but some fully embrace the dark
side and use the Force for evil or selfish intent.

Force adepts usually hail from primitive cultures that revere or fear
them for their Force powers. Some strive to keep their powers secret, both
because they do not fully understand them and because they are afraid of
how others might treat them.

EXAMPLES OF FORCE ADEPTS
IN STAR WARS
Asajj Ventress, Inquisitor Tremayne, Maarek Stele, Sly Moore, Teneniel Djo.

REQUIREMENTS
To qualify to become a Force adept, a character must fulfill the following

criteria.
Minimum Heroic Level: 7th. Y
Trained Skills: Use the Force.

Feats: Force Sensitivity.
Talents: Any three Force talents (see Force Talents, page 100).

GAME RULE INFORMATION
Force adepts have the following game statistics.

Hit Points
At each level, Force adepts gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitution modifier.

Force Points
Force adepts gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their char-
acter level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class.

CLASS FEATURES
The following are features of the Force adept prestige class.

Defense Bonuses
At 1st level, you gain a +4 class bonus to your Will Defense and a +2 class
bonus to your Reflex Defense and Fortitude Defense.

Talents

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on), you select a talent.
The talent may be selected from the Dark Side Devotee, Force Adept, or
Force Item talent trees (presented below). You must meet the prerequisites
(if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can be selected more than once
unless expressly indicated.

DARK SIDE DEVOTEE TALENT TREE
Your powerful negative emotions allow the dark side to flow through you,
giving you great power.

Channel Aggression: If you succeed on an attack against a flanked
opponent or any target that is denied its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense,
you may spend a Force Point as a free action to deal additional damage to
the target equal to 1d6 per class level (maximum 10d6).

Channel Anger: You let your anger swell into a rage. As a swift action,
you may spend a Force Point to gain a +2 rage bonus on melee attack rolls
and melee damage rolls for a number of rounds equal to 5 + your Constitution
modifier. At the end of this duration, you move -1 step along the condition
track (see Conditions, page 148).

While raging, you cannot use skills that require patience and concentra-
tion, such as Mechanics, Stealth, or Use the Force.

Prerequisite: Channel Aggression.

Crippling Strike: Whenever you score a critical hit, you may spend a
Force Point to also reduce the target's speed by half until he is fully healed
(that is, restored to maximum hit points).

Prerequisite: Channel Aggression.

Embrace the Dark Side: Whenever you use a Force power with the [dark
side] descriptor, you may reroll your Use the Force check, but you must accept
the result of the reroll even if it is worse.

Upon choosing this talent, you can no longer use Force powers with the
[light side] descriptor.

Prerequisites: Channel Aggression, Channel Anger.

BASE ATTACK

LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES

2nd +1 Force technique

4th +3 Force technique

6th +4 Force technique

8th +6 Force technique

10th +7 Force technique



--- Page 215 ---
ix HaLavHo

SeESssvIf sdeIz~sse)

©

Force adepts use the Force to survive on fringe worlds, or some other portable object with the Force, creating a talisman
and they often have signature Force powers that that provides protection to you. Creating the talisman takes a
3) ) ,
they use particularly well. full-round action. While you wear or carry the talisman on your

Force Power Adept: You are skilled at using a person, you gain a +1 Force bonus to one of your defenses (Reflex,
particular Force power. Select one Force power you Fortitude, or Will). You may only have one Force talisman active at
know. When using that Force power, you have the any given time, and if your Force talisman is destroyed, you may not
option of spending a Force Point to make two Use create another Force talisman for 24 hours.
the Force checks, keeping the better result. Greater Force Talisman: As Force Talisman (above), except

This talent may be selected multiple times. Its that the talisman's Force bonus extends to all three of your
effects do not stack. Each time you select this talent, defenses (Reflex, Fortitude, and Will).
you must choose a different Force power. Prerequisite: Force Talisman.

Force Treatment: You can make a Use the Force
check in place of a Treat Injury check (see the Treat
Injury skill, page 74). You are considered trained in the
Treat Injury skill for purposes of using this talent. If you
are entitled to a Treat Injury check reroll, you may reroll
your Use the Force check instead (subject to the same
circumstances and limitations).

In addition, you can administer first aid, treat disease,
treat poison, and treat radiation without the requisite
medical kit or medpac.

Fortified Body: The Force shields you against ail-
ments, toxins, and radiation poisoning, making you
immune to disease, poison, and radiation.

Prerequisite: Equilibrium (see page 101).

FORCE ADEPT TALENT TREE e,) @ Force Talisman: You may spend one Force Point to imbue a weapon
@

Force Technique
You have learned improved techniques to feel the rhythm the
Force. At every even-numbered level (2nd, 4th, 6th, and so on),
you gain one Force technique that, once selected, cannot be
changed (see Force Techniques, page 101, for more information).

FORCE DISCIPLE

Through meditation and contemplation of the deepest mysteries
of the Force, some individuals transcend the dogma in which they
were raised as they reach a new and deeper understanding of their
connection to the universe around them. The ebb and flow of
life—quickening, growing, struggling, dying—becomes a cease-
less chorus of destiny. Some Force disciples tap into this power,
become one with it, and speak its wisdom to others. Others
might instead enslave destiny, twist its vision, and corrupt
others for the sake of power.
Force disciples, like Force adepts, exist in every Force
tradition. Even the Jedi and the Sith have had Force
disciples among their ranks, but the dogma of these
traditions tends to discourage such an eclectic
approach to the Force. However, in less well-
known dominant traditions—the Baran Do sages,
the witches of Dathomir, the Gand findsmen,
the Seyugi dervishes—Force disciples hold
great power and influence, shaping their tradi-
tions for centuries to come. Force adepts who become Force disciples
may wield power and influence over entire civilizations.

FORCE ITEM TALENT TREE
You can imbue weapons and objects with the power
of the Force.

Attune Weapon: You may spend a Force Point to
attune a melee weapon. Attuning the weapon takes a full-
round action. From that point forward, whenever you wield
the attuned weapon, you gain a +1 Force bonus on attack
rolls. The weapon is attuned to you alone; others who wield
the weapon do not gain the Force bonus.

Empower Weapon: You may spend a Force Point to
empower a melee weapon. Empowering the weapon takes a
full-round action. From that point forward, the empowered
weapon deals an additional die of damage, but only when
wielded by you. (For example, an empowered lightsaber
deals 3d8 points of damage instead of 2d8 points of
damage.) Others who wield the weapon do not gain the
bonus damage die.

FEMALE HUMAN FORCE ADEPT


--- Page 216 ---
EXAMPLES OF FORCE Prophet

DISCIPLES IN STAR
WARS

Kadann, Lord Cronal ("Blackhole"), Rokur
Gepta, the Saarai-kaar, Wialu.

REQUIREMENTS
To qualify to become a Force disciple, a character
must fulfill the following criteria.

Minimum Heroic Level: 12th. VY

Trained Skills: Use the Force.

Feats: Force Sensitivity.

Talents: Any two talents from the Dark Side
Devotee, Force Adept, or Force Item talent tree (see
page 214).

Force Powers: Farseeing.

Force Techniques: Any one (see Force Techniques,
page 101).

GAME RULE
INFORMATION
Force disciples have the following game statistics.

Hit Points
At each level, Force disciples gain 1d8 hit points + their
Constitution modifier.

Force Points

Force disciples gain a number of Force Points equal to 7 +
one-half their character level, rounded down, every time
they gain a new level in this class. (Due to their strong
connection to the Force, Force disciples gain more Force
Points than most other prestige classes.)

CLASS FEATURES
The following are features of the Force disciple prestige
class.

Defense Bonuses

At ist level, you gain a +6 class bonus to your Will
Defense and a +3 class bonus to your Reflex Defense
and Fortitude Defense.

Indomitable
You are immune to mind-affecting effects.

MALE ITHORIAN FORCE DISCIPLE

Every time you gain a level in this class, you receive two Destiny Points
instead of the usual one. In addition, you may sacrifice this extra
Destiny Point immediately after gaining a class level. If you choose
to do so, you instead receive a prophetic vision from the

Force; the content of this vision is determined by the GM.
The vision is instantaneous, so no time is required to

exercise this option. Upon seeing the vision, you have
the option to choose a new destiny (see page 112)
so long as the new destiny is related in some way to
the vision. The GM is the final arbiter of what new
destiny (or destinies) are appropriate.

Talents
At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, and 5th), you
select a talent. The talent may be selected from the Force
Adept talent tree (see page 214) or any Force talent tree
in Chapter 6: The Force. You must meet the prerequisites
(if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can be selected
more than once unless expressly indicated.

Force Secret

You have glimpsed an eternal truth through your
contemplation of the Force. At 2nd level and every
level thereafter, you gain one Force secret that, once
selected, cannot be changed (see Force Secrets, page
103, for more information).

TABLE 12-7

BASE ATTACK
BONUS

LEVEL CLASS FEATURES

LAC aie

7 ux esiavHo

-
fm
0
a
@
W
‘
@
{)
y
@


--- Page 217 ---
Ux HStievHga

Sessv1a gseiLsaHve)

CLASS FEATURES
The following are features of the gunslinger prestige class.

GUNSLINGER

Since the first primitive slugthrower was developed thousands of years ago,
there have been soldiers of fortune focused on pistol fighting. The tradi-
tion grew with the technology, creating a special breed of blaster-wielding
freelancers who shoot first and ask questions later. Often wandering guns-
for-hire, bodyguards in fringe areas, professional duelists,

or even assassins, these fighters know everything
there is to know about pistols of all descriptions.
They can draw faster, shoot faster, and aim more
accurately with their weapons of choice than any
other category of warrior. Some use their prow-
ess to defend the weak and battle injustice, while
others use their skill to gain fast and easy credits.
Regardless of motivation, gunslingers seek to use
their focused combat techniques to gain greater
fame, and wield that fame as a weapon against less
well-known foes.

Defense Bonuses
At 1st level, you gain a +4 class bonus to your Reflex
Defense and a +2 class bonus to your Will Defense.

Talents
At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on),
you select a talent. The talent may be selected from
the Gunslinger talent tree (presented below),
the Fortune talent tree (see page 46), or the
Awareness talent tree (see page 49). You must
meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen
talent. No talent can be selected more than
once unless expressly indicated.

GUNSLINGER TALENT TREE
You never travel anywhere without a blaster (or two), and
you know how to handle yourself in a gunfight.
Debilitating Shot: If you aim before making a ranged
attack (see Aim, page 154) and the attack hits, you
move the target -1 step along the condition track (see
Conditions, page 148) in addition to dealing damage.
Deceptive Shot: Select one target in line of sight
within 6 squares. You can spend two swift actions on
the same turn to make a Deception check; if the check
result equals or exceeds the target's Will Defense, the
target is denied its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense
against your attacks until the beginning of your next turn.
Improved Quick Draw: If you are carrying a pistol (either in
your hand or ina holster), you may draw the pistol and make a single
attack during a surprise round even if you are surprised. If you are not
surprised, you may take any single action of your choice, as normal.
Knockdown Shot: If you aim before making a ranged attack
(see Aim, page 154) and the attack hits, you knock the target
prone in addition to dealing damage. You can't use this talent
to knock down targets two or more size categories bigger
than you.
Multiattack Proficiency (pistols): Whenever you
make multiple attacks with any type of pistol as a full
attack action (see Full Attack, page 154), you reduce the
penalty on your attack rolls by 2.

EXAMPLES OF
GUNSLINGERS IN
STAR WARS

Jango Fett, Han Solo, Gallandro, Dash Rendar.

REQUIREMENTS

To qualify to become a gunslinger, a charac-

ter must fulfill the following criteria.
Minimum Heroic Level: 7th. Y
Feats: Point Blank Shot, Precise

Shot, Quick Draw, Weapon Profi-

ciency (pistols).

GAME RULE
INFORMATION
Gunslingers have the following game statistics.

Hit Points
At each level, gunslingers gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitu-
tion modifier.

Force Points
Gunslingers gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half
their character level, rounded down, every time they gain a
new level in this class.

MALE WOOKIEE GUNSLINGER


--- Page 218 ---
BASE ATTACK

LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES

2nd +2 Trusty sidearm +1

4th +4 Trusty sidearm +2

6th +6 Trusty sidearm +3

8th +8 Trusty sidearm +4

10th +10 Trusty sidearm +5

You can take this talent multiple times; each time you take this talent,
you reduce the penalty on your attack rolls by an additional 2.

Ranged Disarm: You can disarm an opponent using a ranged attack. If
your ranged disarm attack fails, your opponent doesn't get to make a free
attack against you (see Disarm, page 152).

Trigger Work: You take no penalty on your attack roll when using the
Rapid Shot feat.

Trusty Sidearm

Starting at 2nd level, you gain a bonus on damage rolls equal to one-half your
class level (rounded down) when wielding a pistol. This damage is in addition
to the character's usual level bonus to damage. This damage is doubled on
a successful critical hit, as normal.

WJED!I KNIGHT

Among the Jedi, those of the order who have proven capable, wise, self-suf-
ficient, and stable are given the rank of Knight. A Jedi apprentice must learn to
use the Force without instability or strain, build his or her own lightsaber, and
show an understanding of the Code of the Jedi (though such understanding
may shift from era to era, as the nature of the Jedi differs somewhat in each
era). During most eras, a Jedi must pass a series of tests before becoming a
Jedi Knight, which may be as simple as fulfilling a single important mission
assigned by a Jedi Master, or as complex as a series of trials to test the Jedi's
mettle, ethics, and dedication. In a few times of chaos and uncertainty, Jedi

apprentices are forced by circumstance to push themselves past the normal
boundaries of their training and become knights in function, if not in name,
with no formal testing. In these rare cases, the ruling Jedi generally acknowl-
edge the Jedi’s status as a knight as soon as circumstances allow.

Jedi Knights are trusted to teach apprentices, carry out missions with little
aid or support, and use their best judgment when handling the unexpected.
A Jedi Knight is expected to deal with any problem in a manner that reflects
well on the Jedi as a whole, and carry out the Jedi goals of defending justice
and maintaining peace. Jedi are the guardians of the galaxy, and the Jedi
Knight is a skilled individual expected to uphold that trust.
EXAMPLES OF JEDI KNIGHTS IN
STAR WARS
Anakin Skywalker (Episode Ill), Barriss Offee, Bastila Shan, Kyle Katarn, Luke
Skywalker (Episode VI), Nomi Sunrider, Ulic Qel-Droma.

REQUIREMENTS
To qualify to become a Jedi Knight, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Base Attack Bonus: +7.

Trained Skills: Use the Force.

Feats: Force Sensitivity, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers).

Special: Must have built your own lightsaber (see the Building a Light-
saber sidebar, page 40).

Special: Must be a member of the Jedi tradition (see page 104).

GAME RULE INFORMATION
Jedi Knights have the following game statistics.

Hit Points
At each level, Jedi Knights gain 1d10 hit points + their Constitution modifier.

Force Points
Jedi Knights gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their char-
acter level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class.

CLASS FEATURES
The following are features of the Jedi Knight prestige class.

Defense Bonuses
At 1st level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex, Fortitude, and Will
Defense.

Talents
At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on), you select a talent.
The talent may be selected from the Armor Specialist talent tree (see page



--- Page 219 ---
ix HeSidvHa

Sessvi17e) FGeOILSEe)

51), the Lightsaber Combat talent tree (see page 41), the Duelist talent tree
(presented below), or the Lightsaber Forms talent tree (presented below).
You must meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can
be selected more than once unless expressly indicated.

DUELIST TALENT TREE
Through rigorous training and experience, you become one of the greatest
swordfighters in the galaxy.

Force Fortification: As a reaction, you can spend a Force Point to
negate a critical hit scored against you and take normal damage instead.
You can spend this Force Point even if you've already spent a Force
Point earlier in the round.

Greater Weapon Focus (lightsabers): You gain a +1 bonus on
melee attack rolls with lightsabers. This bonus stacks with the bonus
granted by the Weapon Focus (lightsabers) feat.

Prerequisite: Weapon Focus (lightsabers) feat (see
page 89).

Greater Weapon Specialization (light-
sabers): You gain a +2 bonus on melee damage
rolls with lightsabers. This bonus stacks with
the bonus granted by the Weapon Specializa-
tion (lightsabers) talent.

Prerequisites: Greater Weapon Focus
(lightsabers), Weapon Focus (lightsabers)
feat, Weapon Specialization (lightsabers)
(see page 53).

Multiattack Proficiency (light-
sabers): Whenever you make multiple
attacks with any type of lightsaber as
a full attack action (see Full Attack,
page 154), you reduce the penalty
on your attack rolls by 2.

You can take this talent multiple times; each time you
take this talent, you reduce the penalty on your attack rolls
by an additional 2.

Severing Strike: When you deal damage with a light-
saber that is equal to or greater than both the target's
current hit points and the target's damage threshold
(that is, when you would deal enough damage to
kill your target), you may choose to use this talent.
Instead of dealing full damage, you instead deal half
damage to your target and move it -1 step on the
condition track (see Conditions, page 148). In addi-
tion, you sever one of your target's arms at the wrist
or elbow joint, or one of the target's legs at the knee or
ankle joint (your choice).

FEMALE Twi'Lek JEDI

Severing part of an arm prevents the target from wielding weapons or
using tools in that hand and imposes a -5 penalty on skill checks and ability
checks keyed to Strength and Dexterity. Severing part of a leg knocks the
target prone, reduces the target's speed by half, reduces its carrying capacity

by half, and imposes a -5 penalty on skill checks and ability

checks keyed to Strength and Dexterity.
Because of the severity of such an injury, losing
a part of a limb causes a persistent condition that
can only be removed by having surgery successfully
performed on you (see Treat Injury skill, page 74). A
cybernetic replacement limb (see page 137) negates

these reductions and penalties.

LIGHTSABER FORMS TALENT TREE
You have refined your knowledge of lightsaber technique,
your blade becoming an extension of your self. Anyone
using a lightsaber may use one of these forms, but you
have the discipline and patience to become a true
master of the form.
Ataru: You may add your Dexterity bonus
(instead of your Strength bonus) on damage
rolls when wielding a lightsaber. When you
wield a lightsaber two-handed, you may
apply double your Dexterity bonus (instead of
double your Strength bonus) to the damage.
Djem So: Once per round when an opponent hits you with
a melee attack, you may spend a Force Point as a reaction to
make an immediate attack against that opponent.
Jar'Kai: When you use the Lightsaber Defense talent, you
gain twice the normal deflection bonus to your Reflex Defense
when you are wielding two lightsabers.
Prerequisites: Lightsaber Defense (see page 41), Niman.
Juyo: Once per encounter, you may spend a Force Point as a swift
action to designate a single enemy in your line of sight. For the remainder
of the encounter, you may reroll your first attack roll each round against
that opponent, keeping the better result.
Prerequisites: Weapon Focus (lightsabers) feat (see page 89), Weapon
Specialization (lightsabers) (see page 41), base attack bonus +10.
Makashi: When wielding a single lightsaber in one hand, the deflection
bonus you gain from the Lightsaber Defense talent (see page 41) increases
by 2 (to a maximum of +5).
Prerequisite: Lightsaber Defense.
Niman: When wielding a lightsaber, you gain a +1 bonus to your Reflex
Defense and Will Defense.
Shien: Whenever you redirect a deflected blaster bolt (see the Redirect
Shot talent, page 41), you gain a +5 bonus on your ranged attack roll.

KNIGHT


--- Page 220 ---
BASE ATTACK

LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES

2nd +2 Force technique

4th +4 Force technique

6th +6 Force technique

8th +8 Force technique

10th +10 Force technique

Prerequisites: Deflect (see page 41), Redirect Shot (see page 41).

Shii-Cho: When using the Block or Deflect talents, you only take a -2
penalty on your Use the Force check for every previous block or deflect
attempt since your last turn (see page 41).

Prerequisites: Block (see page 41), Deflect (see page 41).

Sokan: You may take 10 on Acrobatics checks to tumble even when
distracted or threatened. Additionally, each threatened or occupied square
that you tumble through only counts as 1 square of movement.

Prerequisite: Acrobatic Recovery.

Soresu: You may reroll a failed Use the Force check when using the Block
or Deflect talents.

Prerequisites: Block (see page 41), Deflect (see page 41).

Trakata: By harnessing the unique characteristics of a lightsaber, you
can catch your opponent off guard by quickly shutting off and reigniting
the blade. When wielding a lightsaber, you may spend two swift actions to
make a Deception check to feint in combat (see page 66).

Prerequisites: Weapon Focus (lightsabers) feat (see page 89), Weapon
Specialization (lightsabers) (see page 41), base attack bonus +12.

Vaapad: When attacking with a lightsaber, you score a critical hit on a
natural roll of 19 or 20. However, a natural 19 is not considered an auto-
matic hit; if you roll a natural 19 and still miss the target, you do not score
a critical hit.

Prerequisites: Juyo, Weapon Focus (lightsabers) feat (see page 89), Weapon
Specialization (lightsabers) (see page 41), base attack bonus +12.

Force Technique

You have learned improved techniques to attune yourself to the Force. At
every even-numbered level (2nd, 4th, 6th, and so on), you gain one Force
technique that, once selected, cannot be changed (see Force Techniques,
page 101, for more information).

YEDI MASTER

Jedi Masters represent the pinnacle of the Jedi order. They are Jedi who
are both strong enough in the Force and patient enough in life to pass on
their skills by teaching a new generation of Jedi. The journey from Padawan
learner to Jedi Master usually takes decades, and many who start upon the
path never reach its final destination.

Becoming a Jedi Master requires patience, inner strength, wisdom, and
a deep connection to and understanding of the Force. Further, a Jedi Knight
usually doesn't become a Jedi Master until he trains a student to completion.
Jedi are allowed only one Padawan at a time, and the training of a single
Padawan can take years.

The most respected Jedi Masters are invited by their peers (and, in some
cases, their former masters) to join them on the Jedi Council. Those who join
the council use their wisdom and influence to instruct others in the ways of
the Force and preserve peace in the galaxy. The Jedi Council is also tasked
with identifying Force-sensitive children across the galaxy and offering them
instruction in the Jedi tradition. These lessons are fairly rudimentary—usu-
ally intended to teach a student “the basics” until he or she is old enough to
receive formal training as a Padawan.

During the Rise of the Empire era, the Jedi Council would confer the title
of Jedi Master upon those deemed qualified to teach others in the ways of
the Force. During the Rebellion era and The New Jedi Order era, Jedi require
no such approval; however, they must adhere to the tenets of the Jedi Code
to become Jedi Masters.

EXAMPLES OF JEDI MASTERS
IN STAR WARS

Adi Gallia, Eeth Koth, Luke Skywalker (The New Jedi Order era), Kit Fisto,
Luminara Unduli, Mace Windu, Obi-Wan Kenobi (Episode III), Plo Koon,
Shaak Ti, Yoda.

REQUIREMENTS
To qualify to become a Jedi Master, a character must fulfill the following

criteria.
Minimum Heroic Level: 12th. VY
Trained Skills: Use the Force.

Feats: Force Sensitivity, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers).
Force Techniques: Any one (see Force Techniques, page 101).
Special: Must be a member of the Jedi tradition (see page 104).



--- Page 221 ---
ix HSsiagvHo

SessSseVviIe FOILSS2)

\

GAME RULE INFORMATION Talents
Jedi Masters have the following game statistics. - At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, and 5th), you select a talent.

The talent may be selected from the Duelist talent tree (see page
218) or any Force talent tree in Chapter 6: The Force. You must
meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can
be selected more than once unless expressly indicated.

Hit Points
At each level, Jedi Masters gain 1d10 hit points + their Constitu-
tion modifier.

Force Secret

You have meditated on the deeper mysteries of the light side
of the Force. At 2nd level and every level thereafter, you gain
one Force secret that, once selected, cannot be changed
(see Force Secrets, page 103, for more information).

Force Points

Jedi Masters gain a number of Force Points equal to 7 + one-half their
character level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in
this class. (Due to their strong connection to the Force, Jedi Masters
gain more Force Points than most other prestige classes.)

OFFICER

Even the best-trained troops need someone to make
decisions and provide direction. The officer fills that
role but also takes responsibility when the troops fail in
their appointed tasks. They frequently also suffer the dis-
respect of their subordinates, who often see the uniform
as a symbol of oppression. Many soldiers can't perceive
the honor of the person inside the uniform. Very few
officers earn the universal respect of their troops
and their superiors, but to those who understand
the concepts of leadership and valor, it often just
comes naturally.
An officer must be comfortable in command,
willing to make tough decisions when his men need
guidance, and occasionally ordering individual soldiers to
their deaths so that the unit can survive. A good officer
learns to do so without hesitation and only agonizes
over his decision when lives are no longer at stake. The
best officers don't let their distaste for life-or-death

CLASS FEATURES
The following are features of the Jedi Master prestige class.

Defense Bonuses
At 1st level, you gain a +3 class bonus to your Reflex, Fortitude,
and Will Defense.

Fearless
You are immune to fear effects.

Serenity

You may enter a brief meditative state as a full-round action. You
may remain in this trance as long as you wish, and you are still
aware of your surroundings; however, you do lose your Dexterity
bonus to your Reflex Defense. Upon emerging from the trance
(a swift action), your first attack roll or Use the Force skill check
made in the following round is considered to be a natural 20.

ler re Pi decisions paralyze them when their troops are count
bed deD MASTER ing on them. Those who can't find the courage to face
BASE ATTACK such dilemmas rarely stay officers for long—though
LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES certainly, a few somehow manage to avoid the issue

by shifting blame elsewhere.

ist _ Defense bonuses, fearless, serenity,

falembatnt eerie Pita EXAMPLES OF

2nd +2 Force secret OFFICERS IN

tania STAR WARS

3rd +3 Force secret, talent Admiral Ackbar, Captain Needa, General Dodonna,
Genera! Grievous, General Rieekan, General Veers.

4th +4 Force secret

Force secret, talent |

MALE KEL DOR JED! MASTER


--- Page 222 ---
REQUIREMENTS
To qualify to become an officer, a character must fulfill the following
criteria.

Minimum Heroic Level: 7th. Y

Trained Skills: Knowledge (tactics).

Talents: At least one talent from the Leadership talent tree (see page 44)
or Commando talent tree (see page 52).

Special: Must belong to an organization with a military or paramilitary
division. Examples include the Trade Federation, the Galactic Empire, the
Rebel Alliance, and the New Republic.

GAME RULE INFORMATION
Officers have the following game statistics.

Hit Points
At each level, officers gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitution modifier.

Force Points
Officers gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 + one-half their character
level, rounded down, every time they gain a new level in this class.

CLASS FEATURES
The following are features of the officer prestige class.

Defense Bonuses
At 1st level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex Defense and a +4 class
bonus to your Will Defense.

Talents

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on), you select a talent.
The talent may be selected from the Military Tactics talent tree (presented
below), the Leadership talent tree (see page 44), or the Commando talent tree
(see page 52). You must meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent.
No talent can be selected more than once unless expressly indicated.

MILITARY TACTICS TALENT TREE

Officers study old battles, looking for historic examples of good military
tactics. You are an expert at leading troops into battle and using the battle-
field to your advantage.

Assault Tactics: As a move action, you may designate a single creature
or object as the target of an assault. If you succeed on a DC 15 Knowledge
(tactics) check, you and all allies able to hear and understand you deal +1d6
points of damage to the target with each successful melee or ranged attack,
until the start of your next turn. This is a mind-affecting effect.

BASE ATTACK

LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES

2nd +2 Command cover, share talent

4th +4 Share talent

6th +6 Share talent

8th +8 Share talent

10th +10 Share talent

Deployment Tactics: You can use your tactical knowledge to direct allies in
battle. As a move action, you can make a DC 15 Knowledge (tactics) check. If
the check succeeds, you and any allies that can see, hear, and understand you
gain a +1 competence bonus on attack rolls against flanked opponents or a +1
dodge bonus to Reflex Defense against attacks of opportunity (your choice). The
bonus lasts until the start of your next turn. This is a mind-affecting effect.

If you have the Born Leader talent (page 44) or the Battle Analysis talent
(page 52), the bonus granted by this talent increases to +2.

Field Tactics: You know how to use existing terrain to best advantage. By
using a move action, you can make a DC 15 Knowledge (tactics) check. If the
check succeeds, you and all allies within 10 squares of you can use whatever
cover is available to gain a +10 cover bonus to Reflex Defense (instead of
the normal +5 cover bonus). Allies must be able to hear and understand you
to gain this benefit, and the bonus lasts until the start of your next turn.
This talent provides no benefit to anyone who doesn't have cover. This is a
mind-affecting effect.

Prerequisite: Deployment Tactics.

One for the Team: As a reaction, you can choose to take one-half or
all of the damage dealt to an adjacent ally by a single attack. Similarly, as a
reaction, an adjacent ally can choose to take one-half or all of the damage
dealt to you by a single attack (even if he doesn't have this talent).

Prerequisite: Deployment Tactics.

Outmaneuver: An officer learns to counter the tactics of his enemies. As
a standard action, you can make a DC 15 Knowledge (tactics) check. If the
check succeeds, enemies in your line of sight lose all competence, insight,

SEsevIo PGal.sEVe)



--- Page 223 ---
ux HSLlavHo

SEessViVe FBeIiLsEs!e)

and morale bonuses on attack rolls, as well as any dodge bonuses to Reflex
Defense, until the start of your next turn.

If one or more enemy officers are within your line of sight, the highest-
level officer among them can attempt to oppose your Knowledge (tactics)
check as a reaction. If her skill check result is higher than yours, your attempt
to outmaneuver your enemies fails.

Prerequisites: Deployment Tactics, Field Tactics.

Shift Defense I: As a swift action, you can take a -2 penalty to one
defense (Reflex, Fortitude, or Will) to gain a +1 competence bonus to another
defense until the start of your next turn.

Shift Defense Il: As a swift action, you can take a -5 penalty to one
defense (Reflex, Fortitude, or Will) to gain a +2 com-
petence bonus to another defense until the start of
your next turn.

Prerequisite: Shift Defense |.

Shift Defense Ill: As a swift action, you can gain
a +5 competence bonus to one defense (Reflex,
Fortitude, or Will) by taking a -5 penalty to your
other two defenses.

Prerequisites: Shift Defense |, Shift
Defense Il.

Tactical Edge: You can use the
Assault Tactics, Deployment Tactics, or
Field Tactics talent as a swift action
instead of a move action, provided
you have the talent in question.

Command Cover

Starting at 2nd level, you can use
your allies to shield you from harm.
You gain a +1 cover bonus to your Reflex
Defense for each ally that is adjacent to you,
up to a maximum bonus equal to one-half
your class level (maximum +5 at 10th level).

Share Talent

At every even-numbered level, choose a talent
that you already possess. The talent you select must be under
the Influence talent tree (page 43), the Inspiration talent tree
(page 43), the Commando talent tree (page 52), or the Military
Tactics talent tree (see above). Once per day as a standard
action, you can impart the benefits of the chosen talent

to one or more allies, effectively granting them the talent
(even if they don't meet the prerequisites). An ally must

be within 10 squares of you and must be able to see and

hear you to gain the talent; once gained, its benefits last until the end of the
encounter.

You can share the talent with a number of allies equal to one-half your
officer class level (rounded down).

Each time you gain this ability, it applies to a different talent. By 10th
level, an officer has five different talents that he can share with up to five
allies at a time.

Once you select a shared talent, it cannot be changed.

SiITH APPRENTICE

The Sith apprentice combines combat mastery with the power of the dark side
to create a living embodiment of rage and savagery. Physical conditioning
and punishing discipline make the Sith apprentice into a formidable opponent,
and facility with the powers of the dark side add a wicked barb to an other-
wise deadly weapon. The Sith apprentice is dedicated to the conquest and
subjugation of any obstacle to the Sith tradition. Throughout history, a single
Sith apprentice has usually been more than a match for most Jedi. When Sith
apprentices gathered in numbers, as they did four thousand years before the
days of Darth Maul and Darth Tyranus, the galaxy trembled.

But those times are gone, and the few Sith apprentices to appear since the
rule of Darth Bane have worked in secrecy to preserve the Sith tradition and
prepare for their ultimate conquest of the galaxy. In the thousand years since
Bane established the rule of “one master and one apprentice," foot soldiers,
outlaws, warlords, mercenaries, pirates, fighter pilots, survivalists, duel-
ists, and even the occasional Jedi Knight have turned to the
dark side and embraced the way of the Sith, becoming

mighty warriors, dying brutal deaths, or both. The way
of the Sith apprentice is a constant, unforgiving test
of will and ability, honing each into a blade fearsome
enough to cut through the heart of the hated
Jedi order. Every Sith apprentice dreams of
being the one who will destroy this ancient
foe of the Sith tradition.

The training of a Sith apprentice is
always one of deprivation and hardship.
Mercy and forbearance create a weak
weapon, and such a weapon is useless.

The Sith apprentice is subjected to endless
conditioning and drilling. Displays of fear or
uncertainty are rewarded with painful and edu-
cational punishment. Displays of strength
and ruthlessness are rewarded with
another day's survival. The Sith
apprentice learns to live for the
precious few words of encourage-

MALE DUROS OFFICER


--- Page 224 ---
ment his master gives, and the dream that he will one day stand Talents
atop a pile of slain Jedi. For the Sith apprentice, furious battle

At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, 5th, and so on), you select a talent.
is its own reward.

The talent may be selected from the Armor Specialist talent tree (see page

51), the Duelist talent tree (see page 218), the Lightsaber Combat talent

tree (see page 41), or the Sith talent tree (presented below). You must

meet the prerequisites (if any) of the chosen talent. No talent can
be selected more than once unless expressly indicated.

EXAMPLES OF SITH
APPRENTICES IN

STAR WARS

Lumiya, Darth Bandon, Darth Sion, Visas Marr, Carnor Jax,

Warb Null. SITH TALENT TREE

The Sith tradition believes in order through tyranny. In ancient
days, Sith warriors battled Jedi Knights for galactic supremacy
until, finally, the few surviving Sith were driven into hiding. Since
then, the Sith have conspired to annihilate the Jedi and everything
they stand for.

Dark Healing: You can spend a Force Point to heal wounds by
drawing life energy from another creature within 6 squares of you.
Using this ability is a standard action, and you must succeed on
a ranged attack roll. If the attack equals or exceeds the target's

Fortitude Defense, you deal 1d6 points of damage per class level

to the target and you heal an equal amount. If the attack fails,

there is no effect.

Dark Scourge: You have dedicated your life to wiping out
the Jedi, and your hatred of them knows no bounds. Against Jedi
characters, you gain a +1 dark side bonus on attack rolls.

Dark Side Adept: Force powers that are strongly tied to
the dark side flow through you more easily. You can reroll any
Use the Force check made when activating Force powers with
the [dark side] descriptor, but you must keep the result of the
reroll, even if it is worse.

Dark Side Master: As Dark Side Adept (see above), except
that you can spend a Force Point and keep the better of the
two Use the Force checks.

Prerequisite: Dark Side Adept.
Force Deception: You can use your Use the Force check modifier
instead of your Deception check modifier when making Deception checks,

REQUIREMENTS
To qualify to become a Sith apprentice, a character
must fulfill the following criteria.

Minimum Heroic Level: 7th. Y

Trained Skills: Use the Force.

Feats: Force Sensitivity, Weapon Proficiency
(lightsaber).

Dark Side Score: Your Dark Side Score (see page 94) must
be equal to your Wisdom score. If your Dark Side Score ever
becomes less than your Wisdom score, you lose access to all
class features granted by this class (including talents) until
your Dark Side Score again equals your Wisdom score.

Special: Must be a member of the Sith tradition (see
page 105).

GAME RULE
INFORMATION
Sith apprentices have the following game statistics.

Hit Points
At each level, Sith apprentices gain 1d10 hit points + their
Constitution modifier.

Force Points

Sith apprentices gain a number of Force Points equal to 6 +
one-half their character level, rounded down, every time they
gain a new level in this class.

“HAT LAST WE WILL
REVEAL OURSELVES
TO THE JEDI. AT

LAST WE WILL
HAVE REVENGE.”

—- DARTH MAUL

CLASS FEATURES
The following are features of the Sith apprentice prestige
class.

Defense Bonuses

At 1st level, you gain a +2 class bonus to your Reflex, Fortitude,
and Will Defense.

MALE HUMAN SITH APPRENTICE

ux BStidvHa

SsSSeviIg)D GdeILSEHe)

(


--- Page 225 ---
BASE ATTACK

LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES

2nd +2 Force technique

4th +4 Force technique

6th +6 Force technique

8th +8 Force technique

10th +10 Force technique

ix wslLavHD

as you use the Force to cloak your vile treachery. You are considered trained
in the Deception skill for purposes of using this talent. If you are entitled to
a Deception check reroll, you may reroll your Use the Force check instead
(subject to the same circumstances and limitations).

Improved Dark Healing: Your dark healing ability (see above) improves.
The range of this ability increases to 12 squares, and even if the attack fails
the target takes half damage while you heal an equal amount.

Prerequisite: Dark Healing.

Wicked Strike: When you score a critical hit with a lightsaber, you may
spend a Force Point to move the target -2 steps along the condition track
(see Conditions, page 148).

Prerequisites: Weapon Focus (lightsabers) feat (see page 89), Weapon
Specialization (lightsabers) (see page 41).

Force Technique

You have learned improved techniques to control the Force. At every even-
numbered level (2nd, 4th, 6th, and so on), you gain one Force technique
that, once selected, cannot be changed (see Force Techniques, page 101,
for more information).

FALLEN JEDI
A Jedi who turns to the dark side and becomes a Sith apprentice retains all
of his Jedi class features, including talents, Force powers, bonus feats, and

other abilities. The only exceptions are Force powers with the [light side]
descriptor, which the character can no longer use.

SiItTH LORD

The Sith Lord is the pinnacle of the Sith tradition. Her most sacred tasks include
preserving the lore and glory of the Sith and plotting their eventual ascen-
dance to their place as rulers of the galaxy. The Sith Lord must allow nothing
to stand in the way of this goal: not all the forces of the Republic military,
nor the entirety of the Jedi order. When the time comes, the Sith Lord must
be prepared to ruthlessly crush all opposition, leaving no traces behind.

The Sith Lord cultivates individuals with the potential for both great power
and great evil, training them from childhood, when possible, to be every bit
as ruthless as herself. The training can be better described as physical and
mental torture, but it is designed to create someone strong, fast, cunning, and
deadly. The Sith Lord passes on her knowledge of the dark side of the Force,
instilling in her apprentice both a lust for power and a fear of failure.

Arguably, only the truly ambitious or deeply twisted ever seek to become
Sith Lords. Following the path of the Sith dominates one's destiny, requir-
ing a constant devotion to engineering the ascendance of the Sith. A Sith
Lord cannot afford the luxury of friends, mercy, or even rest. The dark side
sustains her through decades of scheming and planning, of masterminding
plots subtle and grandiose. Even then, a Sith Lord may meet her end without
ever seeing her contributions to the Sith grand scheme come to fruition. Each
must content herself with knowing that her apprentice, or a descendant of
her apprentice a hundred generations down the line, will one day honor his
sacrifice by destroying the Jedi order and replacing it with the dark empire
of the Sith.

In the early days of the Sith, only one of their rank could ever gain the title
"Dark Lord of the Sith.” Seizing this prestigious position generally required
the support of a significant portion of the Sith—and the death of the previous
Sith Lord. With the twilight of the Sith and the rise of Darth Bane, the rules
of the old Sith were supplanted by new rules. There could only be two Sith at

BASE ATTACK

LEVEL BONUS CLASS FEATURES

2nd +2 Force secret

4th +4 Force secret



--- Page 226 ---
any time: One was the master, and the other was the apprentice. While both
of these could be Sith Lords, neither could take on an apprentice until the
other was dead. Sometimes this resulted in vicious battles between master
and student. But more commonly, a Sith Master would pass on all he knew
before expiring, leaving his former apprentice to take on an apprentice of
his own, and thus continue the tradition of the Sith.

EXAMPLES OF SITH LORDS
IN STAR WARS

Darth Bane, Darth Sidious, Darth Maul, Darth Tyranus, Darth Vader,
Darth Malak, Darth Nihilus, Darth Krayt, Exar Kun.

REQUIREMENTS
To qualify to become a Sith Lord, a character must fulfill
the following criteria.

Minimum Heroic Level: 12th. Y

Trained Skills: Use the Force.

Feats: Force Sensitivity, Weapon Proficiency
(lightsaber).

Force Techniques: Any one (see Force Techniques,
page 101).

Dark Side Score: Your Dark Side Score (see page 94)
must be equal to your Wisdom score. If your Dark Side
Score ever becomes less than your Wisdom score, you
lose access to all class features granted by this class until
your Dark Side Score again equals your Wisdom score.

Special: Must be a member of the Sith tradition (see
page 105).

GAME RULE
INFORMATION
Sith Lords have the following game statistics.

Hit Points
At each level, Sith Lords gain 1d10 hit points + their
Constitution modifier.

Force Points

Sith Lords gain a number of Force Points equal to 7 + one-
half their character level, rounded down, every time they gain
a new level in this class. (Due to their strong connection to
the dark side of the Force, Sith Lords gain more Force Points
than most other prestige classes.)

CLASS FEATURES
The following are features of the Sith Lord prestige class.

Defense Bonuses

At 1st level, you gain a +3 class bonus to your Reflex, Fortitude, and
Will Defense.

Fearless
You are immune to fear effects.

Talents
At every odd-numbered level (1st, 3rd, and 5th), you select
a talent. The talent may be selected from the Sith talent
tree (see page 223) or any Force talent tree in Chapter
6: The Force. You must meet the prerequisites (if any)
of the chosen talent. No talent can be selected more
than once unless expressly indicated.

Temptation

You are adept at using Dun Moch, an ancient and
vile technique for tempting others to tap into the
dark side of the Force. As a standard action, make
a Persuasion check and compare it to the Will
Defense of a single opponent within line of sight. If
the check succeeds, the target is filled with fear or
anger, briefly giving in to the dark side. If the target
spends a Force Point before your next turn, it must
either add 1 point to its Dark Side Score or move -1
step on the condition track (see Conditions, page
148) as it is overcome by doubt and remorse. If
the target spends a Destiny Point before your next
turn, it instead must add 2 points to its Dark Side

Score or move -2 steps on the condition track.

Force Secret

You have learned forbidden secrets of tapping the

dark side of the Force. At 2nd level and every level
thereafter, you gain one Force secret that, once
selected, cannot be changed (see Force Secrets,
page 103, for more information).

FEMALE HUMAN SITH LORD

ix BestavHga

0

SeEssevIes PseIzLSssvVe)
an 42> 2 ae ae



--- Page 227 ---
—_, . _— -
a =— ~

ae ee ee

5 a ee eee

CHAPTER Xill



--- Page 228 ---
a

The Star Wars universe is populated with a wide variety of species hailing

from thousands of worlds. Each of these worlds has its own unique qualities
and cultures. Since fantastic locales are a big part of what makes Star Wars
exciting and fun, it is important to know a little bit about the established
worlds in order to base adventures there.

LIFE IN THE GALAXY

Because the galaxy has had some form of interrelated society for more than
twenty thousand years (be it Old Republic, Empire, or New Republic), most
everyone is used to a mix of species and cultures. There are some beings who
are prejudiced against one or another species (and this is especially notice-

* able during the Empire's control of the galaxy), but most others appreciate

the diversity the galactic society has to offer. From planetary spaceports
to orbiting space stations, it isn't unusual for Humans and Twi'leks and
Mon Calamari to work side by side or otherwise interact. They don't always
get along, but that could be said about any individuals in any species. This
diversity has led to a spread of ideas, philosophies, sciences, and cultures.
Markets throughout the galaxy feature a wide assortment of exotic goods
from a variety of worlds. Again, such opportunities for species and cultures
to mingle aren't unusual—they’re just part of everyday life.

Finally, a galactic society requires open communications to flourish. The
Old Republic developed the HoloNet to handle this. A near-instantaneous
communications network, it provides a free flow of holograms and other
forms of communications among member worlds. Using hundreds of thou-
sands of non-mass transceivers connected through hyperspace simutunnels
and routed through massive computer sorters and decoders, the HoloNet
allows news and communications to flow from one world to another in
almost real time. During the time of the Empire, large portions of the HoloNet
system were shut down, and the remaining portions were mostly restricted to
government and military use. This reduction of the system cut off rebellious
worlds and kept news of the Empire's actions from spreading too quickly.
In addition, datacards and other forms of news and information are carried
from place to place by starships. This means that even without the HoloNet,
in many cases information is only a hyperspace trip away.

is SSS HS-



--- Page 229 ---
J

Hix HSLevHgd

YSPGLLAIZVS DLOVIVS)

PLANETS OF
THE GALAXY

This section provides a brief gazetteer detailing information on a variety of
planets throughout the galaxy. Each entry lists not only pertinent informa-
tion for the Gamemaster but also Knowledge check DCs for players. This sort
of information allows the GM to determine how much a character (and not
necessarily the player) knows about a given world.

BESPIN

Region: Outer Rim

Climate: Temperate (in the Life Zone)

Gravity: Standard

Moons: 2

Length of Day: 12 standard hours

Length of Year: 5,110 standard days

Sapient Species: 68% Human, 8% Ugnaught, 6% Lutrillian, 18% other
species

Government: Guild

Capital: Cloud City

Major Exports: Foodstuffs, technology
Major Imports: Tibanna gas, tourism, cloud cars

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

15 The gas giant of Bespin is renowned for its rich stores of Tibanna gas,
a key component in blaster ammunition.

20 Cloud City was built by Ugnaughts, the descendents of whom now
work the Tibanna gas mines above the planet.

25 The beldon is a huge, floating creature that lives in Bespin's atmo-
sphere and feeds off of airborne plankton floating around the planet.

Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

15 Bespin's primary outpost of civilization is Cloud City, an independent
mining colony and haven port for travelers in the Anoat Sector.

20 Though Bespin is a mining colony, they are not a part of the Mining
Guild and have rejected any attempts by the Mining Guild to bring the
colony into the fold.

25 Bespin maintains neutrality most due to its size, making it a favorite
port-of-call for smugglers and others that do not wish to attract gov-
ernmental attention.

BOTHAWUI

Region: Mid Rim

Climate: Temperate

Gravity: Standard

Moons: 3

Length of Day: 27 standard hours
Length of Year: 351 local days

Sapient Species: 98% Bothan (native), 1% Human, 1% other species
Government: Bothan council

Capital: Drev'starn

Major Exports: Information, technology
Major Imports: Technology

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

10 Bothawui is a world covered in mountains and ridges separated by
deep, wide valleys inhabited by dangerous wildlife.

15 Bothans eventually discovered that espionage and infiltration were
far more convenient methods of waging war, and soon it became the
“Bothan way.”

20 Settlers from Bothawui established colonies on the planet of Kothlis,
making the Bothans one of the few species to maintain permanent
colonies on other worlds.

25 As a result of the suspicious and treacherous nature of life on
Bothawui, the Bothan SpyNet developed and became the foremost
information gathering network in the galaxy.

Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

10 Bothan society is extremely focused on the flow and exchange of
information, even impacting the daily lives of ordinary citizens.

15 Bothan politicians rise to power by displaying a mastery over the flow
of information and the application of political force.

20 othan politics can be extremely dangerous, and sabotage, assassi-
nation, and espionage are as common on Bothawui as debates and
normal legislation on other worlds.

CEREA

Region: Mid Rim

Climate: Temperate

Gravity: Standard

Moons: 1

Length of Day: 27 standard hours
Length of Year: 386 standard days


--- Page 230 ---
Sapient Species: 98% Cerean (native), 1% Human, 1% other species
Population: 450 million

Government: Council of Elders

Capital: Tecave

Tech Level: Interplanetary (industrial)

Major Exports: Foodstuffs

Major Imports: Technology

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

15  Cerea is a lush temperate world covered in thick forests and jungles.

20 Cerea's isolation from the rest of the galaxy has resulted in the planet
remaining largely untouched by industry or civilization, allowing it to
maintain a nearly complete natural ecosystem.

25 During the Clone Wars, Cerea struggled to maintain its freedom and
neutrality, opting to stay out of the fighting whenever possible.

30 In the waning days of the Old Republic, a generation of Cerean youths
rebelled against their elders and sought out the culture and technol-
ogy of the galaxy at large, leading to a conflict within their society
that resulted in bloody uprisings.

Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

15 Cerea is largely isolationist, preferring to stay out of interstellar
conflicts.

20 Despite their isolationist views, many Cereans have risen to positions
of prominence, though their decision to leave the home planet has
made them outsiders in the eyes of their own people.

25 Cereans have strict laws in place that limit the import of high technol-
ogy and goods from other worlds, as the planet's rulers seek to prevent
technology from corrupting their society.

CORUSCANT

Region: Core

Climate: Temperate (urban)

Gravity: Standard

Moons: 4

Length of Day: 24 standard hours

Length of Year: 368 local days

Sapient Species: 78% Human (native), 22% other species
Government: Republic or Dictatorship (depending on era)
Capital: None

Major Exports: None

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, medicinal goods

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

10 Coruscant is one of the oldest and most populated planets in the
galaxy, its surface completely covered by cities.

15 Coruscant long ago became the seat of galactic politics, and it is from
this planet that all major interstellar governments have ruled.

20 Coruscant relies on vast weather control stations to regulate every-
thing from temperature to humidity.

25 In the lowest depths of Coruscant, citizens of the planet have degen-
erated into barbarism or scavenging, making the city depths danger-
ous to all but the most prepared.

Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

10 Coruscant is not only the governmental center of the galaxy but also
the cultural center of the galaxy, where new trends and fashions
debut.

20 Despite the fact that most of the wealthiest members of galactic soci-
ety live on Coruscant, the world is also home to millions of poor and
destitute people, many of whom eke out meager livings as servants
and laborers.

30 Coruscant is home to the Black Sun crime syndicate (and other note-
worthy criminal organizations) and has a flourishing black market
where illegal goods are trafficked on a daily basis.

DORIN

Region: Expansion Region

Climate: Temperate (low oxygen)
Gravity: Standard

Moons: 1

Length of Day: 22 standard hours
Length of Year: 409 standard days
Sapient Species: 100% Kel Dor (native)
Government: Representative Republic
Capital: Dor'shan

Major Exports: None

Major Imports: Technology

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

15 Dorin has a unique atmosphere that is toxic to most sentient species
but perfectly breathable to the Kel Dor species.

20 Situated between two black holes, Dorin was not discovered by galac-
tic settlers until several centuries before the Galactic Civil War.

Mix eSstadavHsS

al

ip
>
‘
a
@
>
NI
y
iy


--- Page 231 ---
HEE LLeZvQ DLIYVWe)

fix HSLavHoa

25 Though Kel Dor are generally altruistic and helpful, their justice system
is very swift (perhaps frighteningly so to outsiders who make a habit
of breaking laws).

30 The Kel Dor once had a proud and influential Force-using tradition
known as the Baran Do sages, but since the planet's entry into galactic
society, the tradition's influence and prestige have waned as young
Kel Dor are drawn to other Force traditions.

Knowledge (Life Sciences)

DC RESULT

15 Dorin's atmosphere is composed mostly of helium and native gases,
with very little oxygen. As a result, Kel Dor cannot breathe on other
worlds without the assistance of a breath mask.

DURO

Region: Core

Climate: Temperate (polluted)

Gravity: Standard

Moons: 0

Length of Day: 33 standard hours

Length of Year: 420 local days

Sapient Species: 53% Duros (native), 36% Human, 11% other species (on
world); 91% Duros, 9% other species (orbital cities)

Government: Corporate

Capital: None

Major Exports: Starships, technology

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, ore, labor

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

10 Duro is one of the most reliable and prolific sources of starship manu-
facturing in the galaxy.

15 Many years ago, the government of Duro opted to consolidate all of
the starship manufacturing companies into one government corpora-
tion, at which time the entire planet came under corporate rule.

20 The citizens of Duro were moved off of the surface of the world and
into floating domed cities that orbited the planet, in order to make
way for terrestrial manufacturing plants and resource harvesting
systems.

Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

10 Duro's corporate government controls the planet's starship manufactur-
ing facilities as well as almost every other industrial site on the world.

15 Only those that own stock in Duro's corporate government can par-
ticipate in lawmaking and world politics.

20 The government on Duro permeates every aspect of the lives of its
citizen-employees, and those citizens who remain on Duro are almost
guaranteed to work for some branch of the starship manufacturing
business.

ENDOR, FOREST MOON OF

Region: Outer Rim

Climate: Temperate

Gravity: Standard

Moons: —

Length of Day: 18 standard hours

Length of Year: 402 local days

Sapient Species: 95% Ewok (native), 4% Yuzzum (native), 1% other

species

Government: None

Capital: None

Major Exports: None

Major Imports: None

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

20 Traditionally ignored by most of the galaxy, the forest moon of Endor
is a lush and nearly untouched satellite orbiting the gas giant Endor in
the Moddell Sector.

25 The forest moon of Endor is a favorite spot for galactic travelers pass-
ing through the Moddell Sector, and numerous visitors (both legiti-
mate travelers as well as smugglers and outlaws) have used the moon
as a temporary safe haven.

30 During the height of the Empire, the forest moon of Endor was used as
an Imperial base of operations far away from the rest of civilization.
The second Death Star was built in orbit of the forest moon.

Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

20 The native sentient species on Endor have no significant cities or tech-
nology, living in tribal groups and small villages.

25 The native Ewoks are shamanistic, superstitious, and clever. They built
their villages in the boughs of great trees and are known to build com-
plex traps and pitfalls to snare much larger predators.

GAMORR

Region: Outer Rim

Climate: Temperate

Gravity: Standard

Moons: 1

Length of Day: 28 standard hours


--- Page 232 ---
Length of Year: 380 local days

Sapient Species: 100% Gamorrean (native)
Government: Feudal clans

Capital: None

Major Exports: Warriors, slaves

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, technology

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

15 Gamorr's past is filled with tales of war and violence, with conflicts so
numerous that almost no historians outside of the Gamorreans them-
selves can truly understand them.

20 Gamorr is a verdant world covered in forests and jungles that boast a
diverse array of flora and fauna.

25 When the first Humans arrived on Gamorr, they enslaved large num-
bers of the native populace and carried them off as slaves.

30 The Hutts are particularly notorious for visiting Gamorr and pressing
the natives into service, a problem the Gamorreans have been power-
less to prevent.

Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

15 The concept of warfare is central to Gamorrean society, with their
culture and traditions revolving around neverending conflicts.

20 Gamorrean males often travel offworld to work as mercenaries and
criminal enforcers.

25 Gamorreans are divided into clans, each of which represents a family
or group of families that constantly clashes with other clans.

30 While Gamorrean males are the primary warriors and hunters, Gamor-
rean females are the matriarchs and rulers of the society.

IRIDONIA

Region: Mid Rim

Climate: Arid (hot)

Gravity: Standard

Moons: 2

Length of Day: 29 standard hours
Length of Year: 413 local days

Sapient Species: 99% Zabrak (native), 1% other species
Government: Dictatorship

Capital: Malidris

Major Exports: None

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, technology

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

10 Iridonia's environment is extremely harsh, so much so that even the
native Zabrak have a difficult time surviving exposed on the surface.

15 Iridonia was one of the first worlds of join the Old Republic and is
reputed to be one of the first planets to achieve hyperspace travel.

20 The Zabrak of lridonia developed cities deep inside canyons carved
into the planet's surface, clustering together in refuge and developing
their society in the cramped caverns.

Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

10 Iridonia is a strong, independent world whose people resist oppression
of any kind.

15 Though the Zabrak are spread out over eight worlds (including their
homeworld of lridonia), all eight governments have a standing agree-
ment to come to one another's defense in times of crisis.

20 Nationalism is a major part of Zabrak politics, and Iridonians believe
that despite their homeworld's harsh environment, it is the greatest
among all Zabrak worlds.

25  lridonians place a large emphasis on the will to survive, and as such
their government, while civilized, believes that “survival of the fittest"
is a philosophy that can be used to determine fitness to rule.

ITHOR

Region: Mid Rim

Climate: Tropical

Gravity: Standard

Moons: 1

Length of Day: 41 standard hours

Length of Year: 422 standard days

Sapient Species: 99% Ithorian (native), 1% other species
Government: Herds

Capital: None

Major Exports: Foodstuffs, medicine, spices
Major Imports: Technology

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

10 Ithor is a tropical world covered in dense rainforests and wild jungles.

15 Ithor's natural ecosystem remains relatively untouched despite having
millions of native sentient inhabitants.

20 The Ithorians first explored space in “herd ships,” massive repulsorlift-
powered cities.

MEGLLGZV® AILOVIVS |

|
ee
|b
(a
(|A
0
D
x

ca eee


--- Page 233 ---
3)

fltx< HSSiavngd

=
>
2 |
4
@
>
W
wy

Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

10 Ithorians live in self-described herds, which travel in massive floating
cities above the planet's surface.

15 All Ithorians adore harmony with nature, and they are known to react
violently when confronted with someone threatening that way of life.

20 Each herd is completely independent from the others, remaining both
autonomous and self-sufficient.

KASHYYYK

Region: Mid Rim

Climate: Temperate

Gravity: Standard

Moons: 1

Length of Day: 26 standard hours
Length of Year: 381 local days

Sapient Species: 100% Wookiee (native)
Government: Representative Tribal
Capital: Rwookrrorro

Major Exports: Technology, natural resources
Major Imports: Medicines

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

10 Despite being covered in a thick forest of trees populated by ferocious
predators, Kashyyyk gave rise to the Wookiee species that now travels
the space lanes. The Wookiees have warred with their interplanetary
neighbors, the Trandoshans, frequently throughout history.

15 The Wookiee natives built huge cities within the trees, high above the
most dangerous sections of the planet's forest, allowing them to live
in relative safety.

20 Kashyyyk only joined the galactic community a few millennia before
the rise of the Empire, developing space travel as a result of disassem-
bling Trandoshan technology.

Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

10 Wookiee society revolves around the importance of family and honor.

15 Wookiees are extremely trustworthy, and a Wookiee's word is a bond
so strong that only death can break it.

20 Wookiee society has little tolerance for anything seen as detrimental
or oppressive, and Wookiees are quick to dispose of problems using
violence.

25 The concept of the life debt (becoming someone's loyal protector for
saving a Wookiee's life) is one example of the strength of Wookiee
honor.

MON CALAMARI

Region: Outer Rim

Climate: Temperate

Gravity: Standard

Moons: 3

Length of Day: 21 standard hours

Length of Year: 398 local days

Sapient Species: 39% Mon Calamari (native), 60% Quarren (native), 1%
other species

Government: Representative Council

Capital: Foamwater City

Major Exports: Warships, weapons

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, medicine, technology

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

10 Mon Calamari is an aquatic world dotted with small continents and
islands spread throughout its vast oceans.

15 Mon Calamari has supplied the galaxy with starships of superior qual-
ity ever since it first made contact with the Old Republic.

20 Unlike other worlds covered by oceans, Mon Calamari has almost no
tectonic activity or violent weather, making the planet both placid and
attractive to tourists.

25 Over time, a rift has developed between the Quarren and the Mon
Calamari, which now manifests itself as an animosity that disrupts any
attempts at cooperation.

Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

10 Mon Calamari boasts two distinct societies: one for the Mon Cala-

mari species, and one for the Quarren species.

15 Ill will between the Mon Calamari and the Quarren comes as a result
of outside interference. The Quarren see the Mon Calamari as med-
dlers in galactic affairs, while many Mon Calamari see the Quarren as
cowards and isolationists.

20 The animosity between the two species is the result of conflicts with
other species, some of which have nearly erupted into full-blown wars.

25 Interacting with either of the two societies is likely to make it difficult
to interact with the other, as the prejudices found in both species can
extend to outsiders as well.


--- Page 234 ---
NABOO NAR SHADDAA

Region: Mid Rim Region: Mid Rim

Climate: Temperate Climate: Temperate (urban)

Gravity: Standard Gravity: Standard

Moons: 3 Moons: —

Length of Day: 26 standard hours Length of Day: 87 standard hours

Length of Year: 312 local days Length of Year: 419 local days

Sapient Species: 72% Gungan (native), 27% Human, 1% other species Sapient Species: 20% Human, 1% Evocii, 79% other species
Government: Democratic monarchy (Human), Council (Gungan) Government: Hutt crime lords

Capitals: Theed (Human), Otoh Gunga (Gungan) Capital: None

Major Exports: Grains, art, cultural items Major Exports: Illegal goods, narcotics, weapons

Major Imports: Technology, processed foods Major Imports: Foodstuffs, illegal goods, medicine,

technology

Knowledge (Bureaucracy)

DC RESULT

15 Though the Humans on Naboo support a democratic government, they
elect a sovereign monarch to rule over them. There are no age limita-
tions on voting or even leadership.

>

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

10 Naboo is a peaceful planet that has remained a relatively insignificant,
if beautiful, member of galactic society for centuries.

15 Naboo is a world covered in beautiful oceans, sweeping grasslands,
and rich forests. Human settlements tend to incorporate waterfalls,
cliffs, and other natural terrain features. Gungans live in beautiful
submerged cities hidden beneath great lakes.

20 Many years ago, the Humans of Naboo came into conflict with the
native Gungans, thus beginning a centuries-long animosity between
the two peoples.

25 Naboo, unlike most other habitable worlds, does not have a molten
core. Instead, the center of the planet is hollowed out and filled with
water.

Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

10 The Human society on Naboo is peaceful and artistic, focusing on
promoting cultural greatness over political power.

25 Gungan society is extremely isolationist and xenophobic, to the point
where they typically use violence first and ask questions later.

30 Gungan law is usually considered extremely harsh, with even the
smallest offenses warranting exile or even the death penalty.

ix eSitavHo

Hee LLEZyea) ALBVIVS



--- Page 235 ---
litte

Bee LALeZyveq) osibLoagyV

fix esalavHo

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

10 Nar Shaddaa, also known as the Smuggler's Moon, orbits Nal Hutta
(the Hutt homeworld). Nar Shaddaa is a haven for criminals of all
stripes who gather to conduct illicit business.

15 Nar Shaddaa, though technically within Hutt Space and under Hutt
rule, has no true organized government and is divided into sectors
ruled by individual species, gangs, and crime lords.

20 Nar Shaddaa is an urban sprawl with soaring towers and dizzying
depths. Many sectors of Nar Shaddaa are in poor repair, boasting
unstable architecture and zones where even a wise Jedi fears to tread.

Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

10 Nar Shaddaa boasts a strong black market economy. Almost any sort
of contraband can be found on Nar Shaddaa for the right price.

15 Millions of smugglers, crime lords, and information brokers make their
homes on Nar Shaddaa. Their organizations hold sway over different
zones of the Smuggler's Moon, and small wars break out between rival
gangs on a regular basis.

20 Almost every major criminal organization in the galaxy, from the Hutt
crime lords to the Black Sun Syndicate, has agents working behind the
scenes on Nar Shaddaa.

RODIA

Region: Mid Rim

Climate: Tropical and arid (hot)

Gravity: Standard

Moons: 2

Length of Day: 29 standard hours

Length of Year: 305 local days

Sapient Species: 99% Rodian (native), 1% other species
Government: Rodian Grand Protector

Capital: Equator City

Major Exports: Bounty hunters, foodstuffs, exotic animals, weaponry
Major Imports: Technology, agricultural goods, weapons

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

10 Rodia's thick, lush jungles provide an ample breeding ground for
savage predators, and as the Rodians themselves evolved, they learned
to survive among even the deadliest of creatures.

15 The Old Republic first made contact with the Rodian people thousands
of years ago when scouting vessels arrived on their homeworld, and
this first meeting resulted in violent conflict.

20 Prior to joining the greater galactic community, the Rodian people
had become violent and prone to hunting one another down, killing
indiscriminately for the thrill of the hunt.

25 Since the jungles of Rodia provide plenty of food in the form of fruits,
vegetables, and easily hunted prey, the Rodian people never developed
any skill at agriculture.

Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

10 Prestige in Rodian society is based on the individual Rodian's ability to
hunt and track.

15 The Rodian people learned to channel some of their violent tendencies
into works of theater, and Rodian dramas are violent but compelling
performances that are well regarded throughout the galaxy.

20 The highest aspiration of many Rodian natives is to go out into the
galaxy and obtain a great quarry, bringing their prey back to Rodia as
proof of their excellent hunting skills.

RYLOTH

Region: Outer Rim

Climate: Subarctic, temperate, and arid

Gravity: Standard

Moons: 5

Length of Day: 305 standard days

Length of Year: 1 local day

Sapient Species: 76% Twi'lek (native), 24% other species
Government: Feudal meritocracy

Capital: Kala’uun

Major Exports: Ryll spice, slaves

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, medicine, technology

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

10 The planet Ryloth has long been a relatively neutral and out-of-the-
way planet, avoiding conflict more deftly than most other worlds.

15 Ryloth is an incredibly dangerous world that has a unique orbit that
causes one side of the planet to perpetually face the world's sun. As
such, the sunlit side of the planet remains incredibly hot, while the
dark side of the planet is frigidly cold year-round.

20 Ryloth produces an extremely rare kind of spice known as ryll, which
is harvested and sold by Twi'lek traders.

25 The only way life forms can survive on Ryloth is by living in a band
of perpetual dusk right at the sunlight's terminator line, where the
temperatures are moderate and life can flourish.


--- Page 236 ---
Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

10 Ryloth is usually,perceived as lawless world by the galaxy at large,
thanks to its lax views on both slavery and the trafficking of spice.

15 Twi'leks native to Ryloth are extremely loyal to their families, also
called head-clans, as they are not only family members but also ave-
nues to power.

20 When enough members of a head-clan ascend to positions of leader-
ship within Ryloth society, that head-clan grows in power and stature,
rising as one through the ranks of the government.

SULLUST

Region: Outer Rim

Climate: Superheated

Gravity: Standard

Moons: 2

Length of Day: 20 standard hours

Length of Year: 263 local days

Sapient Species: 96% Sullustan (native), 2% Human, 1% Bith, 1% other
species

Government: Corporation

Capital: Byllurun

Major Exports: Starships, computers, droids, hyperdrive and astrogation
technology

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, water

Hix SSsiavYHoS

HSPPLLAZVYSQ) DLOBYIYWS)


--- Page 237 ---
)

ix HeSidvHa

YoaeLLAsZve) DLBIIWWe)

Knowledge (Bureaucracy)

DC RESULT

10 The SoroSuub Corporation serves as the acting government of Sullust
and runs planetary affairs like a business.

15 SoroSuub is not a profit-driven monstrosity like those found in the Cor-
porate Sector, and most of the company's policies and decrees are well
accepted by the populace because they are not intrusive or oppressive.

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

10 Sullust is the homeworld of the Sullustan people, as well as the base
of operations for the powerful SoroSuub Corporation.

15 Sullust is a voleanic and tectonically unstable planet. The Sullustans
have adapted to living in massive, subterranean lava tubes.

20 Sullust became a major trading hub quickly after making contact
with the rest of the galaxy, and as galactic commerce became more
frequent on the world, so too did the presence of corporations and
manufacturing.

25 As the planet's prestige grew, so did the SoroSuub Corporation,
which eventually grew so large that it seized control of the planet's
government.

TATOOINE

Region: Outer Rim

Climate: Arid

Gravity: Standard

Moons: 3

Length of Day: 23 standard hours

Length of Year: 304 local days

Sapient Species: 70% Human, 5% Jawa (native), 5% Tusken Raider
(native), 20% other species

Government: Hutt crime lords

Capital: Bestine

Major Exports: Illegal weapons, minerals, narcotics

Major Imports: Foodstuffs, medicine, technology

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

10 Tatooine is a backwater desert world dotted with cities, villages, and
moisture farms. Native species include the primitive Tusken Raiders
and the Jawas.

15 Controlled by the Hutts, Tatooine is a haven for criminal activity and
is often used as a hiding place for lawbreakers on the run.

20 Tatooine hosts numerous dangerous sporting events, including Podrac-
ing. One of the most famous Podracing events is the Boonta Eve Clas-
sic, which is frequently attended by the planet's Hutt overlords.

Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

10 Tatooine is controlled by the Hutts, and many criminals seek refuge
there.

15 The Jawas of Tatooine have a reputation for being scavenging junk
dealers and swindlers, but they are mostly harmless.

20 The Tusken Raiders of Tatooine are referred to locally as Sand People.
They live in nomadic tribes and often ride around on large herd ani-
mals called banthas. Sand People are extremely violent, attacking
anyone who sets foot in their territory. They typically wield gaderffii
("gaffi sticks"), but some tribes use primitive slugthrowers as well.

TRANDOSHA
Region: Mid Rim

Climate: Arid

Gravity: 62% Standard

Moons: 1

Length of Day: 25 standard hours
Length of Year: 371 local days
Sapient Species: 99% Trandoshan (native), 1% other species
Population: 42 million
Government: Tribal

Capital: Hsskhor

Tech Level: Interstellar (advanced)
Major Exports: Slaves, mercenaries
Major Imports: Technology

Knowledge (Galactic Lore)

DC RESULT

10 Trandosha is located in the same system as Kashyyyk, the Wookiee
homeworld. The two species rarely see eye to eye.

15 Trandosha boasts lighter than average gravity, which allows the slug-
gish Trandoshans to move with ease on their homeworld.

20 Trandosha joined the galactic community many millennia ago but has
always been indirectly represented in galactic affairs by a Wookiee rep-
resentative, which has led to some animosity between the two species.

Knowledge (Social Sciences)

DC RESULT

10 Trandoshans make poor diplomats and have trouble dealing peacefully
with others.

15 Trandoshan slavers have captured or killed more Wookiees than any
other species.

20 Trandoshans revere their tribal elders. Breaking Trandoshan traditions
or disrespecting one's elders often leads to exile from individual cities
or even the entire planet.


--- Page 238 ---
TRAVEL IN THE GALAXY

All the worlds in the galaxy mean nothing to a character if they are unreach-
able. Fortunately, hyperspace travel has become common, affordable, and
(usually) safe.

ASTROGATION

Moving from a given location to a desired destination through hyperspace
requires a successful Use Computer check. Because every object in the
galaxy is constantly in motion, the precise path between two locations
changes from day to day. If the astrogator uses current data (one day old
at most), he can plot a safe course. Doing so takes 1 minute and requires a
successful DC 10 Use Computer check.

If an astrogator has no data with which to plot a jump through hyper-
space, the base DC for the Use Computer check is 30, and the astrogator
must spend 1 hour calculating coordinates and vectors before attempting
the check.

Asa general rule, data for a particular route through hyperspace is avail-
able to anyone with access to the HoloNet—although that data might be
outdated if the route in question is not frequently traveled by other ships.

Certain situations or circumstances can also modify the check, as shown
in Table 13-1: Astrogation DC Modifiers. The lack of a nav computer (or,
failing that, an astromech droid with stored coordinates) makes the task
much more difficult. If time is of the essence, the astrogator can perform
the check as a full-round action round by taking a -10 penalty on his Use
Computer check.

If the Use Computer check is successful, the starship enters hyperspace
without incident and arrives at its destination in a number of days equal to
1d6 x the ship's hyperdrive multiplier.

A failed Use Computer check indicates that the astrogator has made a
potentially dangerous error in his calculations. Make another Use Computer
check using the same modifiers and against the same DC. If this second
Use Computer check is successful, the error is caught before entering
hyperspace, and the process of plotting a course must begin anew. If this
second Use Computer check fails, the starship moves -1 persistent step on
the condition track (see Conditions, page 148) and takes damage equal to
5% of its total hit points for every point by which the check fails. (The per-
sistent condition and damage remain until the ship undergoes maintenance.)
lf the ship is not disabled or destroyed, it arrives at the intended destination
in double the expected travel time. If the ship is disabled, it drops out of
hyperspace in a random location somewhere between the point of origin
and the destination (the exact location is determined by the GM).

CHECK MODIFIER

ae

Attempt to make check in 1 round -10

1 Do not apply the penalty if the ship has current astrogation data stored in an
astromech droid or receives accurate transmitted data from another ship.

Ux H9LlavHo

MEPILLIZVA AQLOVIVE)



--- Page 239 ---
ee

neal
eee
ai

x<IV
RING

a
al

+

CHAPTER
MASTE



--- Page 240 ---
The Gamemaster is the guiding force of the game. If the game is fun, it will
be to your credit. If it isn't, you'll need to make some adjustments. But don't
,worry—running a Star Wars game is nowhere near as daunting as it might
_ Seem at first.

Described below are the different duties of the GM. As with any hobby,
on what you enjoy the most, but remember that the other duties are
) important.

E ROLE OF THE
AMEMASTER

—amemaster is storyteller and referee, creator of terrible threats against
galaxy, secret master of the villainous, criminal, and ruthless, and hidden
protector of the brave. The GM's responsibilities include several important
asks; each of these is outlined in this section.

CREATING ADVENTURES

As the GM, your primary role in the game is creating and presenting
adventures in which the other players can play their heroes. To accomplish
this, you need to spend some amount of time before the game preparing
your stories. This is true whether you create your own adventures or use
published ones.

Creating adventures takes time. Many GMs find this creative process the
most fun and rewarding part of being a Gamemaster. Creating interesting char-
acters, settings, plots, and challenges to present to your friends can be a great
creative outlet. In fact, creating good adventures is so important that it receives
its own section in this chapter (see Building an Adventure, page 249).

TEACHING THE GAME

Sometimes, but not always, it's the GM's responsibility to teach newcom-
Bers how to play the game. This isn't a burden; it's a wonderful opportunity.
» Teaching other people how to play provides you with new players and allows
syou.to set them on the path to becoming top-notch roleplayers. It's easier
iffiito play with someone who already knows the game. Players who
by a good teacher in a fun game are more likely to stick with the
r the long haul. Use this opportunity to encourage new players to
the sort of gamers you want to play games with.

e a few pointers on teaching the game:

eed to know the character creation rules so that you can help new
rs build characters. Have each player tell you what sort of hero he
) F she wants to play, then show the players how they can create those
heroes with the Star Wars rules. If they don't know what to play, show
them the five heroic classes, briefly describe each, and let them choose
the one that most appeals to them.

%

Aix eSeiLavng



--- Page 241 ---
)

Aix BSidvHo

OGNISSELSYVWEWYS)

cS

¢ Don't worry about teaching all the rules ahead of time. All the players
need to know are the basics that apply to understanding their heroes
(what hit points are, how to make attack rolls, how to use skills, and
so on), and they can pick up most of this information as the game
progresses.

e You need to know how to play the game. As long as you know the rules,
the game can move along, and the players can simply focus on their
characters and how they react to what happens in the game. Have play-
ers tell you what they want their characters to do and translate those
decisions into game terms for them. Teach them how the rules work
when they need to learn them, on a case-by-case basis. For example, if
a player wants her Jedi to use the Force, the player tells you what the
hero attempts and you tell her what die to roll, which modifiers to add,
and what happens as a result. After a few times, the player will know
what to do without asking.

PROVIDING THE BACKDROP

The Gamemaster is the creator of his or her own campaign. Even though
you'll be basing your adventures in the Star Wars universe, it's still your
campaign.

Consistency is the key to creating a backdrop that feels real to the players.
When the heroes go back to Mos Eisley for supplies, they should encounter
some of the same characters they met before. Soon, they'll learn the cantina
owner's name—and she'll remember them as well. Once you've achieved this

GAMEMASTER ACCESSORIES
‘The following items are available to enhance your game:

Miniatures: The rules in this book assume that you are using Star
Wars miniatures—attractive, pre-painted plastic figures that can be
used to represent heroes and adversaries in the game. Combined with
the miniatures-scale battle maps, they make it easy to keep track of

_ character position, tactical movement, line of sight, and other combat
factors. Miniatures also add an exciting visual element to the game by
giving players a stronger idea of what GM characters, creatures, and
other heroic characters look like.

Battle Maps: Battle maps provide spacious, ready-to-use encounter
locations for epic Star Wars battles. Battle maps can be found in the

Star Wars Miniatures Game and other Star Wars Roleplaying Game

“products.

Galaxy Tiles: A creative alternative to the battle maps, the Star Wars
Galaxy Tiles accessories provides cardstock corridors, chambers, and
_map features that the GM can assemble to create Rebel bases, Imperial
‘installations, and other unique adventure locations.

level of consistency, however, provide an occasional change. If the heroes
come back to have their starfighter repaired again, they may discover that
the man who ran the starport went back home to Corellia, and his nephew
now runs the family business. That sort of change—one that has nothing to
do with the heroes directly, but which they'll notice—makes the players feel
as though they're adventuring in a living universe as real as themselves. It's
not just a flat backdrop that exists only for them to battle stormtroopers or
the villain-of-the-week.

DETERMINING THE

STYLE OF PLAY

While the GM provides the adventures and the universe, the players and the
GM work together to create the game as a whole. However, it's the GM's
responsibility to guide the way the game is played. The best way to accom-
plish this is by learning what the players want and figuring out what you
want as well. Many styles of play exist, but a few are detailed below.

Blast ‘Em All!

The heroes blow open the blast door, fight the stormtroopers, and rescue
the princess. This style of play is very straightforward. It's fun, exciting, and
action-oriented. Very little time is spent on developing personas for the
heroes, engaging in roleplaying encounters, or mentioning situations other
than what's going on in the adventure. If you're running this type of game,
let the heroes face obviously evil opponents and meet obviously helpful
characters. Don't expect heroes to anguish over what to do with prisoners.
Don't bother too much with credits earned or time spent recovering. Do
whatever it takes to get the heroes back into the action as quickly as pos-
sible. A hero's motivation does not need to be much more than a desire to
fight evil (and maybe acquire credits).

Rules and game balance are important in this style of play. Having heroes
with combat ability greater than that of their companions can lead to unfair
situations; the more powerful heroes can handle more of the challenges,
and thus their players have more fun. If you're using this style, be mindful
about adjudicating rules. Think long and hard about additions or changes
that you want to make.

Immersive Storytelling
The Galactic Senate is threatened by political turmoil. The heroes must
convince the senators to resolve their differences, but can only do so after
they've come to terms with their own differing outlooks and agendas. This
style of gaming is deep, complex, and challenging. The focus isn't on combat,
but on talking, developing in-depth personas, and character interaction.
Whole gaming sessions may pass without a single blaster being fired.

In this style of game, most characters should be as complex and richly
detailed as the heroes—although the focus should be on motivation and
personality, not game statistics. Expect digressions about what each player


--- Page 242 ---
wants his or her hero to do, and why. Buying spare parts might be as impor-
tant an encounter as fighting battle droids. (And don't expect the heroes to
fight the battle droids at all unless their heroes have a good reason to do
50.) Heroes will sometimes take actions against their players’ better judg-
ment because "that's what a hero would do." Adventures deal mostly with
negotiations, political maneuverings, and character interaction. Players may
even talk about the "story" they're collectively creating.

Quoting the rules is less important in this style of play. Since combat isn't
the focus, game mechanics take a back seat to hero development. Skills take
precedence over combat bonuses, and even then, the numbers don't have
to be absolutes. Feel free to change things to fit the players’ roleplaying
needs, perhaps even streamlining the combat system so that it takes less
time away from the story.

Something in Between

Most campaigns are going to fall between these two extremes. There's
plenty of action, but there's also a plot line and interaction between heroes
and nonheroic characters. Players develop their heroes, but they're eager
to get into fights as well. The "in between" style provides a nice mixture of
roleplaying encounters and combat encounters. Even in combat missions, you
can present characters who don't need to be killed. Instead, you can interact
with them through diplomacy, negotiation, or a simple conversation.

“PERHAPS YOU

THINK YOU'RE

BEING TREATED
UNFAIRLY 7?”

- DARTH VADER

ADUUDICATING THE RULES

When everyone gathers around the table to play the game, the Gamemaster
isin charge. That doesn't mean that you can tell people what to do outside
the boundaries of the game, but it does mean that you're the final arbiter
of the rules within the game. Good players always recognize that you have
the ultimate authority over the game mechanics. Good GMs know not to
change or overturn an existing rule without a good, logical justification so
the players don't grow dissatisfied.

This means that you need to know the rules. You're not required to memo-
rize the rulebook, but you should have a clear understanding of what's in
the book so that when a situation comes up that requires a ruling, you know
where to reference the proper rule in the book.

Often a situation arises that isn't explicitly covered by the rules. In sucha
situation, it's the GM who needs to provide guidance as to how it should be
resolved. When you come upon a situation that doesn't seem to be covered
by the rules, consider the following:

¢ Look to any similar situation that is covered in the rules. Try to extrap-
olate from what you see presented there and apply it to the current
circumstance.

e If you have to make something up, stick with it for the rest of the cam-
paign. (This is called a "house rule.") Consistency keeps players satisfied
and gives them the feeling that they are adventuring in a stable, predict-
able universe, not in some random, nonsensical place subject only to the
GM's whims.

e¢ When in doubt, remember this handy rule: Favorable circumstances
provide a +2 circumstance bonus to any d20 roll; unfavorable circum-
stances impose a -2 penalty. You'll be surprised how often this "GM's
secret rule" solves problems.

KEEPING THE GAME BALANCED

Game balance ensures that most hero choices are relatively equal. A balanced
game is one in which one hero doesn't dominate over the rest because of a
choice that he or she made (species, class, talent, feat, Force power, weapon,

SMIVELSVWENWYE



--- Page 243 ---
Aix BaLavHo

QNIHELSYWSIWYS

and so on). It also reflects that the heroes aren't too powerful for the threats
they face, yet neither are they hopelessly overmatched.
Two things drive game balance: good management and trust.

Good Management

A GM who carefully watches all portions of the game so that nothing
gets out of control helps keep the game balanced. Heroes and characters,
victories and defeats, awards and afflictions, items found and credits
spent—all these things must be monitored. No one hero should ever become
significantly more powerful than the others. If this does happen, the others
should have an opportunity to catch up in short order. The heroes as a whole
should never get so powerful that all challenges become trivial to them.
Nor should they be constantly overwhelmed by what they must face. It's no
fun to always lose, and always winning gets boring fast. When temporary
imbalances do occur, it's easier to fix them by altering the challenges than
by changing anything about the heroes and their powers or equipment. No
one likes to get something, only to have it taken away again because it
was too unbalancing.

Trust

Players should trust the GM. This trust can be gained over time through
consistent use of rules, by not taking sides (that is, not favoring one player at
another's expense), and by making it clear that you're not vindictive toward
the players or their characters. If the players trust the GM—and through you,
the game system—they will recognize that anything that enters the game has
been carefully considered. If you adjudicate a situation, the players should be
able to trust it as a fair call and not question or second-guess you. That way,
the players can focus their attention on playing their characters, succeeding
in the game, and having fun, trusting their GM to take care of matters of
fairness and realism. They also trust that you will do whatever you can to
make sure that they can enjoy playing their heroes, potentially succeed in the
game, and have fun. If this level of trust can be achieved, you'll have greater
freedom to add or change things in your game without worrying about the
players protesting or scrutinizing every decision.

Handling Unbalanced Heroes

Sometimes, the unexpected happens. The heroes may defeat a villain, foil an
unstoppable escape plan, and steal a custom starfighter you never intended
to fall into their hands. Or, even more likely, the combination of some new
acquisition with an item or power a hero already has will prove unbalancing
in ways you didn't foresee.

Once a mistake has been made, and a hero ends up too powerful, all is not
lost. In fact, it's almost never difficult to simply increase the challenges the
hero faces to keep him or her from breezing through encounters. However,
this solution can be unsatisfying, since the encounters can become too dif-
ficult for the other, more balanced heroes. At the same time, it's never fun

to lose some aspect of your hero that turns out to be unbalancing. From the
player's point of view, it's not his or her fault.

You have two options: Deal with the problem in-game or deal with the
problem out-of-game.

Dealing with the Problem In-Game: "In-game" is a term used to describe
something that happens in the story created by the play of the game. For
example, suppose a hero becomes unbalanced by building a droid servant
that fights better than any of the heroes in the group. (This is something that
the GM shouldn't have let happen to begin with, but all GMs occasionally
make mistakes.) An in-game solution might be to have an enemy scoundrel
sabotage the droid, or suspicious guards might confiscate the droid the next
time the heroes visit Coruscant. Whatever you do, try not to make it obvi-
ous that the situation is actually just a tool to balance the game. Instead,
make it seem just a part of the adventure. (If you don't, indignant players
will get very angry.)

Dealing with the Problem Out-of-Game: "Out-of-game" means some-
thing that happens in the real world, but has an impact on the game itself.
An out-of-game solution to the problem described in the previous paragraph
would be to take the player aside between sessions and explain that the game
has become unbalanced because of her too-powerful droid and that things
need to change or the game may fall apart. A reasonable person will see
the value in continuing the game, and she'll work with you either in-game
(perhaps donating the droid to an appropriate allied organization) or out-of-
game (perhaps by erasing the droid from her hero sheet and just pretending
it was never there). Be warned, however, that not every gamer is reasonable
in this way. Many will not appreciate this level of intrusion on your part and
will resent giving up a great ability or item their hero “earned.” After an
unfortunate exchange of this type, it will seem obvious and contrived if you
try to balance things with an in-game solution.

RUNNING A
GAME SESSION

After everything is prepared, and everyone sits down at the table, you're
on. It's your show. Here are some things you should consider, at the table
and before you ever get there, to help make the game run as smoothly as
possible.

KNOWING THE PLAYERS
Normally, but not always, the GM is in charge of inviting players to play in his
or her game. If this is the case, it's your responsibility to know and understand
each of these people well enough that you can be reasonably sure that they'll
all get along, work well together, and enjoy the sort of game you run.

A lot of this has to do with playing style. Ultimately, you have to know
the kind of game your players want to play. With players new to the game
or a newly formed group, this may take a while to define. Recognize that


--- Page 244 ---
while you're in charge, it's really everybody's game. The players are all there,
coming back session after session, because they trust that you'll help them
have a fun and rewarding experience.

TABLE RULES

One thing that will help everyone, players and GM alike, to all get along will
be establishing a set of rules—rules that have nothing to do with the actual
game but that govern what happens with the people around the table.

The following are some "table rules" issues you'll need to deal with
eventually. It's best to come up with the answers before you start a regular
campaign. You can establish these yourself, or you can work them out with
your players.

No-Show Players

Sometimes a regular player can't show up for a game session. The GM and
group are faced with the question of what to do with his or her hero. There
are several possibilities:

© Someone else runs that hero for the session (in addition to their own
hero). This is easiest on you, but sometimes the fill-in player resents the
task or the replaced player is unhappy with what happens to the hero in
his or her absence.

e You run the hero, doing your best to make the decisions that you think
the hero's player would make. This might actually be the best solution,
but don't do it if running a hero and running the game at the same time
is too much for you and hurts the whole session.

Aix esilevHS

ONIVELSVWEWYS



--- Page 245 ---
j

Alx HalavHS

OSNIHLSLSYWSEWYS)

© The hero, like the player, can't be present for this adventure. This only
works in certain in-game situations, but if it makes sense for the char-
acter to be absent, that's a handy way to take the hero out of the action
for a game session. Ideally, the reason for the hero's absence is one that
allows him or her to jump back in with a minimum of fuss when the
player is available again. (The hero may have some other commitment,
for instance.)

© The character fades into the background for this session. This is probably
the least desirable solution, because it strains everyone's suspension of
disbelief.

Recognize that players come and go. Someone moves away, another gets
busy, and yet another grows tired of the game. They'll quit. At the same time,
new players will want to join. Make sure to always keep the group at a size
that you're comfortable with. The normal-sized group has four or five players
(not including the GM). However, some groups are as small as two, and others
as large as seven or more. You can also play the game one-on-one, with just
one player and one GM, but that's a very different sort of play experience.
(It's a good way to handle special campaign ideas, such as a Jedi Master's
mentorship of a young Padawan learner.)

If you can, try to find out from the players how long they're interested in
playing. Try to get a modest commitment from them to show up on a regular
basis during that time.

Integrating New Players

When someone new joins the campaign, his or her hero needs to be integrated
into the game. At the same time, the player needs to be integrated into the
group. Make sure that a new player knows the house rules and the table
rules, as well as the game rules.

Rules Discussions

It's probably best if players don't question your rulings or established rules,
propose new house rules, or conduct discussions on other aspects of the
game (aside from what's immediately at hand) during the game itself. Such
matters are best addressed at the beginning or end of the session.

Jokes and Off-Topic Discussions

There are always funny things to be said, movie quotes, good gossip, and
other conversations that crop up during the game, whether they're inspired by
what's going on in the session or completely extraneous. Decide for yourself
(and as a group) how much is too much. Remember that this is a game and
people are there to have fun, yet at the same time keep the focus on the
action of the heroes so the whole session doesn't pass in idle talk.

WORKING WITH THE PLAYERS

Two players want the same newfound item. Each thinks his character can
use it best or deserves it for what he's done. If the players can't find a way to
decide who gets it, you will have to arbitrate or impose a solution. Or, worse,
one player is angry with another player for something that happened earlier
that day outside the game, so now his hero tries to harass or even kill the
other player's hero. The GM shouldn't sit back and let this happen. It's up to
you to step in and help resolve conflicts like that. As GM, you're both a master
of ceremonies and an umpire during the game. Talk with the arguing players
together or separately outside the game session and try to resolve the conflict.
Make it clear as nicely as you can that you can't let anyone's arguments ruin
the game for the other players, and you won't tolerate real-world hard feelings
affecting the way characters within the game react to each other.


--- Page 246 ---
Another case is when a player gets really mad when you rule against him.
Again, be firm but kind in telling him that you try your best to be fair. You
can't have angry outbursts spoiling everyone else's fun. Settle the matter
outside the game session. Listen to the player's complaints, but remember
that you're the final arbiter. By agreeing to play in your game, that player has
also agreed to accept your decisions as GM. (See When Bad Things Happen
to Good Heroes, page 246.)

Sometimes one player's actions ruin the fun for everyone. An obnoxious,
irresponsible, troublemaking player can make the game really unpleasant.
Sometimes he gets others’ heroes killed because of his actions. Other times
he stops the game with arguments, tantrums, or off-topic conversations. Or
he might keep everyone from playing by being late or not showing up at all.
Ultimately, you should get rid of this player. Just don't invite him next time.
Don't play the game with someone that you wouldn't enjoy spending time
with in another social setting.

Decide how many players you want in your game and stick with it. If
someone leaves, try to get a new player. If someone new wants to join an
already full group, resist the urge to let him or her in unless you're sure you
can handle the increased number of players. If there are too many players,
consider dividing them into two groups that play at different times. If there
are too few, you might want to recruit more or have each player play more
than one hero. (It's good to have at least four heroes on a mission team.)

If one player dominates the game and monopolizes your time with her
hero's actions, the other players will quickly grow dissatisfied. Make sure
everyone gets his or her turn. Also, make sure each player gets to make his
or her own decisions. Overeager or overbearing players sometimes try to tell
the others what to do. If one player insists on controlling everything, talk
to him outside the game session and explain that his actions are making
things less fun for everyone.

Metagame Thinking

"| figure that there'll be a lever on the other side of the chasm that extends
the bridge," a player says to the others, "because the GM would never create
a trap that we couldn't deactivate somehow." That's metagame thinking. Any
time the players base hero actions on logic that depends on the fact that
they're playing a game, they're "metagaming." This activity should always
be discouraged, because it detracts from real roleplaying and spoils the
suspension of disbelief.

Surprise your players by foiling this mode of thinking. Maybe there is a
lever on the other side of the chasm—but it might be malfunctioning. Keep
your players on their toes, and don't let them second-guess you. Tell them
to think in terms of the game universe, not of you as the GM. In the game
universe, someone put the trench in the Death Star for a purpose. Figure
out the hows and whys for what they have done. The heroes will need to
do the same.

In short, where possible, encourage the players to employ in-game logic.
Confronted with the situation given above, an appropriate response from a
clever hero is, “I figure there'll be a lever on the other side of the chasm that
extends the bridge, because you'd have to be able to cross from either side."
In fact, this is wonderful—it shows smart thinking as well as verisimilitude
in the game universe.

RECAPPING

“Last time, you had just discovered the secret entrance to the Imperial shield
generator on the forest moon of Endor. We ended the session with you ona
nearby ridge overlooking the entrance. Arani suffered a terrible wound while
fighting the biker scouts. Vor'en wanted to go straight to the entrance and
shoot it out, but the rest of you talked him into helping you find a suitable
place to watch and plan. What do you want to do?”

In the middle of an ongoing campaign, recapping activity from the pre-
vious session at the start of a new session often helps establish the mood
and reminds everyone what was going on. In most games, heroes continue
what they're doing from day to day (or even hour to hour), but most players
(in the real world) have several days of real time between game sessions.
Some players might forget important details that will affect their decisions
if they don't get reminders.

Of course, that means that you, as the GM, need to keep notes of what
happens so you don't forget, either. At the very least, jot down a few sen-
tences about what's going on at the end of each game session. Leave your
notes where you can find them right away at the beginning of the next ses-
sion. You'll probably find that, as the GM, you tend to think about the game
between sessions more than the other players do, and thus you'll remember
more details. You'll quickly get to the point where you won't forget what
happened in past sessions, especially if the adventures you're currently
working on build off those events.

SETTING THE PACE

The pace of the game determines how much time you spend on a given activ-
ity or action taken by the heroes. Different players enjoy different paces.
Some search every room they come across, but some think doing that is not
worth the game time. Some roleplay every encounter, while some want to
skip on to the "good bits."

Do your best to please the group, but when in doubt, keep things moving.
Don't feel that it's necessary to play out rest periods, replenishing supplies,
or carrying out daily tasks. Sometimes that level of detail is an opportunity
to develop heroes, but most of the time it's unimportant.

You should decide ahead of time, if possible, how long the playing session
will last. This not only allows everyone to make plans around the game but
also enables you to judge about how much time is left during a session and
pace things accordingly. You should always end a session at a good stop-
ping point (see Ending Things, below). Three to four hours is a good length

AIX ualaveS

SNIVELSYVWANVE |



--- Page 247 ---
ONIHSELSYWIAWYVY

for an evening game. Some people like to play longer sessions, usually on a
weekend. Even if you normally play for shorter periods, sometimes it's fun
to run a longer "marathon" session.

REFERENCING RULES

Try to look at the rules as little as possible during a game. Although the rules
are there to help you, paging through the book can slow things down. Look
something up when necessary (and mark things you'll need to refer to again
with a bookmark), but recall a rule from memory when you can. Even if you're
not exactly correct in your recollection, the game keeps moving.

CHEATING

(AND PLAYER PERCEPTIONS)
Terrible things can happen in the game because the dice just go awry.
Everything might be going fine, when suddenly the players have a run of
bad luck. A round later, half the heroes are down for the count and the other
half almost certainly can't take on the opponents that remain. If everyone
dies, the campaign might very well end then and there, and that's bad for
everyone. Should you stand by and watch the heroes get slaughtered? Or
should you "cheat" and have the opponents run off, or fudge the die rolls
so that the heroes still miraculously win in the end? There are really two
issues at hand.

Do you cheat? The answer: GMs really can't cheat. You're the umpire, and
what you say goes. As such, it's certainly within your right to sway things one
way or another to keep people happy or keep things running smoothly. It's
no fun losing a beloved hero because he fell down a flight of stairs. A good
rule of thumb is that a hero shouldn't die in a minor way by some fluke of the
dice unless he or she was doing something really stupid at the time.

However, you might not feel that it's right or even fun unless you obey
the same rules the players do. Sometimes the heroes get lucky and kill an
opponent you had planned to have around for a long time. By the same token,
sometimes things go against the heroes and disaster befalls them. Both the
GM and players take the bad with the good. That's a perfectly acceptable way
to play, and if there's a default method of running a game, that's it.

Just as important an issue, however, is whether the players realize that
you bend the rules. Even if you decide that sometimes it's okay to fudge a
little to let the heroes survive so the game can continue, don't let the play-
ers in on this decision. It's important to the game that they believe they're
always in danger. Consciously or subconsciously, if they believe you'll never
let bad things happen to their heroes, they'll change the way they act. With
no element of risk, victory will seem less sweet. And if thereafter something
bad does happen to a hero, the player may believe you're out to get him. If
he feels you saved other heroes when they were in trouble, he might become
disaffected with the game.

WHEN BAD THINGS HAPPEN

TO GOOD HEROES

Heroes suffer setbacks, lose prized equipment, and sometimes even die.
It's all part of the game, almost as much as success, gaining levels, earning
rewards, and attaining greatness. But players don't always take it well when
something bad happens to their heroes.

Remind players that bad things happen sometimes. Challenges are what
the game's all about. Mention that setbacks are an opportunity to succeed
later. Reassure the player of the dead hero that there are lots of opportunities
for new hero types she hasn't tried yet. The dead hero's surviving allies will
tell tales of their fallen comrade for years to come. The game goes on.

It's rare (out possible) that an entire group of heroes can be wiped out.
In such a case, don't let it end the whole game. Encourage the players to try
new heroes, perhaps of a class or species they haven't played before. Even
that's not really so bad—in fact, it's an opportunity for a dramatic change
of pace. This new group of heroes might even be charged with retrieving the
bodies of the fallen heroes for honorable burial.

ENDING THINGS

Try not to end a game session in the middle of an encounter. Leaving every-
thing hanging in the midst of combat is a terrible way to end a session. It's
difficult to keep track of things such as initiative order, in-game effects, and
other round-by-round details between sessions. The only exception to this
is ending with a cliffhanger. A cliffhanger ending is one in which things end
just as something monumental happens or some surprising turn of events
occurs. The purpose is to keep players intrigued and excited until the next
session. A cliffhanger ends a session right before an encounter begins, prior
to initiative checks, and you pick up the action with initiative checks in the
next game session.

If someone was missing from that session, and you had his hero leave
for a while, make sure that there's a way to work his hero back in next time.
Sometimes, even in a cliffhanger, this can work out well. The hero might
come racing into the thick of things to help out his beleaguered friends and
help save the day.

Allow some time—a few minutes will do—at the end of the session to have
everyone discuss what happened. Listen to their reactions and secretly learn
more of what they like and don't like. Reinforce what you thought were good
decisions and smart actions on their part (unless such information gives too
much away for the adventure). Always end things positively.

You may want to award experience points at the end of each session, or
you might wait until the end of each ad-venture. That's up to you. However,
the standard approach is to give out experience points at the end of each
adventure, so players whose heroes go up a level have time between adven-
tures to choose new skills, feats, and so forth.


--- Page 248 ---
BUILDING AN
ENCOUNTER

For purposes of the Star Wars Roleplaying Game, an encounter is defined as an
obstacle, threat, or situation (whether it be an opponent, several opponents,
or a hazard) that prevents the heroes from achieving a specific goal important
to the adventure. An obstacle, threat, or situation can be overcome through
smart roleplaying, combat, or skill use. Persuading a crazed Force disciple to
surrender might require heroes to enter difficult and perhaps life-threatening
negotiations, while capturing a crime lord might require heroes to fight their
way past a squad of thugs or infiltrate the crime lord's headquarters without
setting off the security system.

CHALLENGE LEVELS

Every opponent or hazard the heroes face has a Challenge Level (CL), which
tells GMs how tough it is to overcome. For example, every stormtrooper has
a CL, as does every wampa and garbage compactor. The more opponents and
hazards the heroes face at once, the more difficult the encounter and the
more experience points (XP) the heroes get for overcoming it (see Awarding
Experience Points, below).

A challenging encounter is one the heroes should overcome with minor
to moderate damage to themselves and some depletion of their resources. A
single obstacle, threat, or situation of Challenge Level n is challenging for a
single character of similar level. For example, a 1st-level hero should find a
CL 1 stormtrooper challenging. By extension, four CL 1 stormtroopers should
prove challenging to four 1st-level heroes.

A difficult challenge is one that seriously taxes the heroes’ resources and
may require the heroes to withdraw and recover, while an unfair challenge
could easily lead to a total party kill. Difficult and unfair challenges are
discussed below (see Measuring Encounter Difficulty).

Complications: An encounter can be made harder by adding complica-
tions that make overcoming certain obstacles, threats, and situations more
difficult. In general, adding a complication to an encounter increases the
CL of every affected obstacle, threat, or situation by 1. For example, if the
heroes confront four CL 1 battle droids and two of them have the benefit of
improved cover (and the heroes do not), the GM should treat the two battle
droids with cover as CL 2 threats and award experience accordingly. However,
the two battle droids without cover would still be counted as CL 1 threats.

Beneficial Circumstances: Sometimes an encounter is made easier by
circumstances beyond the heroes’ control. In such cases, you may reduce
the amount of XP the heroes earn for achieving their encounter goals by
as much as half. For example, if the heroes run across two bounty hunters
who are moderately injured from a previous skirmish, the GM may elect to
award only half normal XP for overcoming them. A GM should avoid reducing
the XP awards when the beneficial circumstances are the direct or indirect
result of good planning or roleplaying on the heroes’ parts. For example, if

the heroes use treachery or bribery to turn one bounty hunter against the
other, they should receive full XP for both bounty hunters even though the
encounter was made easier by their actions.

Measuring Encounter Difficulty

Creating balanced and fun encounters is more art than science. However, the
following guidelines will help you build encounters that aren't so straight-
forward that players will be bored and aren't so difficult that the heroes
aren't likely to survive:

Multiple Opponents: Encounters with two to six opponents work best.
Save the single-opponent encounter for higher-CL “bosses” like the rancor
or Darth Vader. Avoid encounters with more than a dozen opponents unless
you want the heroes to feel overwhelmed.

Variety: The best encounters combine different sorts of obstacles,
threats, and situations. Battling four Rodian soldiers in a corridor is much
less interesting than fighting a Rodian noble, two Rodian soldiers, and the
noble's trained nexu in a storage bay filled with cargo containers.

Combining Different CLs: When building encounters that involve
multiple threats, obstacles, or situations of different Challenge Levels, add

together the various CLs and divide this sum by 3 (round down). If the ar).

is within one level of the heroes’ average level, it's probably a tough but fair
challenge for the heroes. If the result is 2 to 3 levels above the heroes’ level,
expect a difficult encounter that seriously taxes the heroes' abilities and
resources. If the result is 4 or more levels above the heroes’ level, expect the
heroes to have a real fight on their hands, and also brace for one or more
hero deaths. Note that these calculations are based on the assumption that
there are four heroes in the party. Four each additional hero, subtract 1 from

the result. For each missing hero, add 1 to the result.
Here are some sample encounters to illustrate the formula:

e An encounter with four CL 2 clone troopers and one CL 3 elite clone
trooper has a combined CL of 11. Dividing 11 by 3 and rounding down,
you get 3. Based on this result, you can expect this encounter to be a
challenge for four 2nd-, 3rd-, or 4th-level heroes and a less challenging
encounter for higher-level heroes.

e An encounter with two CL 15 elite troopers has a combined CL of 30.
Dividing 30 by 3, you get 10. Based on this result, you can expect this
encounter to be a challenge for four 9th-, 10th-, or 11th-level heroes; a
challenge for five 8th-, 9th-, or 10th-level heroes; or a challenge for six
7th-, 8th-, or 9th-level heroes.

e An encounter with a CL 8 crime lord and five CL 5 assassins has a com-
bined CL of 33. Dividing 33 by 3, you get 11. This encounter is a challenge
for four 10th-, 11th-, and 12th-level heroes and a difficult challenge for
four 8th- and 9th-level heroes. It's an unfair challenge for heroes of 7th
level or less.

He

AIX SSsidvHd :

SNINELSYWSEWYE



--- Page 249 ---
AWARDING
EXPERIENCE POINTS

Heroes receive experience points (XP) for overcoming opponents, hazards,
and other obstacles that stand in the way of achieving the goals of an
adventure. Every opponent and hazard has a Challenge Level (CL) that
determines how much XP the heroes get for overcoming it, as shown in
Table 14-1: Experience Point Awards. Note that overcoming an obstacle
doesn't always mean defeating it. Heroes who trick or bribe a Gamorrean
guard into letting them pass should get full XP for the Gamorrean, just as if
they'd bested him in combat.

The GM has the right to adjust XP awards depending on how rapidly he or
she wants the heroes to gain levels and how easily the heroes achieve their
encounter goals. Wherever possible, the GM should split XP awards equally
between the heroes so that they're gaining levels at the same rate. Once
the heroes accumulate enough XP to gain a level (see Table 3-1: Experience
and Level-Dependent Benefits, page 37), it's time to increase the difficulty
of the challenges they must overcome.

Beginning at 6th level, heroes receive less XP awards for obstacles with
a CL significantly lower than their character level. At some point, low-level
threats become fodder, and little experience can be gained from overcom-
ing them. Heroes receive one-tenth XP for anything with a Challenge Level
equal to or less than the heroes’ average level - 5. For example, a group of
6th-level heroes receive 20 XP for defeating a CL 1 stormtrooper (instead
of 200 XP).

OTHER REWARDS

In addition to experience points, the heroes can earn other rewards for
their actions. As a general rule, a challenging yet fair encounter should
net the heroes resources equal their average level x 2,000 credits, to be
divided equally among them. Easy encounters may deliver half as many
resources or none at all, and difficult encounters should give 50% more at
least. You don't have to hand out resources at the end of every encounter;
often it is best to save the heroes’ rewards until the end of the adventure,
in the form of a lump-sum payment given to them for completing the
adventure's goals.

Resources can take several different forms, as detailed below. For pur-
poses of comparison, all resources are measured in credits.

CREDITS
For many characters, no reward is better than cold, hard cash. This category
includes credit vouchers, electronic deposits of credits into a character's
account (if the character owns a credit chip), credit coins, or trade goods
(often precious metals).

Credits may be found during the course of an adventure—inside a vault in
a Hutt crime lord's palace, in the form of trade goods found in a freighter's

cargo hold, or perhaps even in the pockets or baggage of a defeated foe.
However, heroes are more likely to receive the bulk of their wealth from
grateful benefactors for jobs well done.

CHALLENGE

LEVEL XP AWARD!

1 200

| 600

3) 1,000

7 1,400

11 2,200

13 2,600

1 Divide the XP award by the number of heroes in the party to determine how
many XP each hero receives. Heroes receive one-tenth XP for anything with a
Challenge Level equal to or less than their character level - 5.


--- Page 250 ---
EQUIPMENT

Heroes invariably acquire new equipment in the course of an adventure,
recovering it from the field of battle, seizing it from enemies they defeat,
or stealing it from a less-than-secure place (such as the hold of a captured
starship or a poorly defended warehouse).

Be judicious when giving out valuable equipment as a reward. If the heroes
find valuable equipment too often, they will be tempted to spend several
minutes after every battle looting bodies for usable gear and later selling their
hawked goods, and this can quickly derail or slow down an adventure.

Always point out notable equipment that you want the heroes to have
("The scout trooper's sniper rifle seems intact, and you can see a targeting
scope mounted on it”). Meanwhile, never mention mundane equipment that
isn't meant to be useful, or emphasize why the equipment is either unusable
or undesirable ("The smuggler’s blaster pistol is dirty and rusted, a cheap
knock-off of a BlasTech model. You doubt he ever took the time to clean or
maintain the weapon"). If your players still spend too much time looting, you
should strictly enforce the encumbrance rules (see page 140) and subtract
the value of salvaged equipment from the rewards you give them.

BUILDING AN
ADVENTURE

An adventure—sometimes called a mission—is a collection of related encoun-
ters designed to fit together, creating a cogent storyline for the game. Some
adventures are only short episodes in the campaign or interludes between
longer adventures. Others represent significant missions, while still others
form the backbone of the campaign.

When building a campaign, adventure, or encounter, try to think in terms
of heroic goals. What must the heroes achieve or accomplish? A heroic goal
usually begins with a descriptive verb that best defines the required action:
capture, defeat, discover, destroy, escape, find, negotiate, obtain, protect,
rescue, and survive are good examples. Once you have a suitable verb, flesh
out the details: Rescue the princess from the detention cellblock. Capture
the plans for the Emperor's newest superweapon. Negotiate safe passage
aboard the smuggler's space transport.

Every encounter should have a specific, attainable goal that heroes can
achieve. For example, an encounter might require the heroes to obtain a
code cylinder from a Rodian thug. The encounter setup could be as simple
as cornering the thug in a cantina or as complex as a landspeeder chase
through the dusty streets of Mos Eisley. (Capturing the thug alive could be
a secondary or additional goal.) Whether or not the heroes obtain the code
cylinder will determine or affect their goals in subsequent encounters.

Just as each encounter has a clearly defined goal, so too does every
adventure. For short adventures, the goal might be very simple: Find R2-D2
in the Tatooine desert and bring him back safely. A longer adventure might
have an ultimate goal that can be accomplished only after the heroes achieve

minor encounter goals and overcome various obstacles. For instance, an
adventure's ultimate goal might be to destroy a new Imperial superweapon,
but accomplishing this goal might require the heroes to capture an Imperial
spy, discover the location of the superweapon's secret construction facility,
infiltrate the facility, defeat the Imperial forces in the facility's control room,
and activate the superweapon's self-destruct system.

A campaign need not have a clear goal (particularly when it begins),
but it should have a theme or context. When Luke and Ben meet Han and
Chewbacca in Mos Eisley, they (and their “players,” in this model) had no
idea that the ultimate end of their “campaign” would be the overthrow of

ONIMELSYWSWYS

)

Aix HSiavHo



--- Page 251 ---
)

Aix Balad vHa

SGNIHSLSVWIWVYS)

the Empire and the establishment of the New Republic. However, the GM of
this "campaign" probably had a good idea that these heroes would become
involved with the Rebellion during the campaign, and the Empire would be
their primary opposition. (See Building a Campaign on the next page.)

WHAT MAKES AN ADVENTURE
EXxXciTinec?

Creating a memorable adventure requires more than just an interesting plot
or a grand finish. Remember that in most cases, the heroes won't be able
to see the behind-the-scenes machinations of the villain or the clever plot
twists that occur on the bridge of the Imperial starship. While you want your
adventures to feel like they could come from a movie, you can't always rely
on the same techniques that the moviemakers use. Here are a few tricks to
help you keep your adventures memorable and exciting.

Intriguing Interactions

Too often, players (and GMs) see an adventure as little more than a string
of firefights separated by "talking." This shortchanges one of the most com-
pelling parts of a roleplaying game: playing a role. In addition to creating
interesting characters, the GM must treat these characters as more than just
cardboard props to be interacted with and then discarded.

In general, run a GM character just as a player would run a hero—take
whatever actions the character would take, assuming the action is possible.
That's why it's important to determine a GM character's general outlook
and characteristics ahead of time if possible, so you know how to play the
character properly.

When a GM character interacts with heroes, the GM determines the char-
acters’ initial attitude (hostile, unfriendly, indifferent, friendly, or helpful). A
hero might try to influence this attitude with a Persuasion check. However,
not all interactions require a check. Calling a Wookiee a “walking carpet"
might shift the Wookiee's demeanor from indifferent to hostile. It doesn't
take a roll—just the right words and deeds—to turn someone more hostile.
In general, a hero cannot repeat attempts to influence someone.

Although a GM character can use the Persuasion skill to influence another
GM character, the attitudes of the heroes are never influenced by a skill
check—the players always decide those.

Worthy Adversaries
While it's all well and good for the heroes to mow through a few ranks of
battle droids or stormtroopers during an adventure, this type of encounter
grows tiresome quickly. Be sure to include competent adversaries for the
heroes to encounter, whether as common enemies, archvillains, or even
occasional foils.

An easy mistake is making an adversary too powerful, believing that the
heroes will have it "too easy" unless their opponent is another Darth Vader.

Not every opponent has to be a Dark Lord of the Sith. An intelligently played
enemy can often seem much more powerful than he appears on paper.

In the same vein, nothing is more disappointing than a climactic battle
with a villain who turns out to have a glass jaw. If you know that your villain
will face the heroes in combat, make sure he can stand up to them (or has
plenty of assistance from underlings).

Exciting Combats

One reason that the lightsaber duels in the Star Wars movies are so exciting
is that they tend to take place in interesting locations. From a pitched battle
on a narrow ledge above a Cloud City airshaft to a death duel interrupted
by leaps between platforms and opening and closing energy fields, these
elements add twists to traditional combat scenes.

While any combat can be exciting, you should occasionally have the
heroes face opponents in a nontraditional setting. Sometimes mounted
combat (or aerial mounted combat) can provide a change of pace. Underwater
settings can be interesting as well. A short list of other suggestions appears
below. For more ideas, look to the Star Wars movies, novels, and comics.

Daring Escapes

Sometimes heroes get captured. It happens all the time in the movies.
While it would be fairly easy for the bad guys to simply kill the heroes at
that point, it's more interesting and fun to "take them alive." Maybe the
villains plan to interrogate the heroes, or maybe the heroes are worth more
to them alive.

When heroes are knocked unconscious or otherwise force to surrender,
the game isn't over. Quite the contrary! Instead, try setting up a situation in
which the heroes can perpetrate a daring escape, either alone or with some
unexpected assistance. In The Empire Strikes Back, Leia and Chewbacca
escape Imperial custody with the unexpected help of Lando Calrissian. In
Return of the Jedi, the heroes escape the clutches of Jabba the Hutt through
resourcefulness, teamwork, and sheer luck. Daring escapes are staples of
good adventure stories and an opportunity for heroes to turn an unfortunate
situation into an advantageous one.

Compound Encounters
You can spice up an otherwise boring scenario by adding new elements after
the action has already started. After the players think they know what's going
on, make the encounter more complex by adding a new threat, new goal,
or new opportunity. The simplest kind of compound encounter adds a new
foe halfway through a fight. If a group of assassins attacks the heroes ina
cantina, have their bounty hunter leader show up 4 rounds later. Similarly,
if the heroes are convinced they focus of a fight in Mos Eisley is to defeat a
few stormtroopers, they're not expecting a bantha stampede.

It's important to remember the overall Encounter Level of a compound
encounter. Heroes haven't had a chance to recover and heal since the


--- Page 252 ---
beginning of an encounter, so anything they face is all part of the same
encounter, and should be added together to determine the Encounter Level.
It is slightly easier to deal with foes that attack a few rounds apart (since
not all enemies can attack the heroes off the bat), but in general you don't
want to throw more challenges at the heroes just because their arrival time
is staggered. A compound encounter is a good way for a typical scenario to
become more interesting, not a way to sneak in more foes that the heroes
can deal with.

For example, the heroes know an Imperial Inquisitor is hunting them
down to capture their Force Sensitive members. They've been attacked by
his troops once already, and know how tough those nonheroic characters
are. When the heroes are trying to convince a junk dealer to sell them a
datapad with critical information, the Inquisitor's troops attack. The junk
dealer hides at first, but after three rounds he screams he's leaving, and if
the heroes want the datapad they can get it themselves. He throws it onto
a conveyer belt, where it's carried toward a smelter. The next round, local
guards show up and also start shooting at the heroes. Not only must they
beat twice as many foes, but the heroes must reach the datapad before
it's melted.

BUILDING A CAMPAIGN

The term “campaign” refers to the ongoing game created by the Gamemaster,
a linked set of adventures or missions that follow the escapades of a group
of heroes. A campaign might have a single ongoing storyline—such as the
overthrow of the Empire—or several, shorter plots. The “classic” trilogy (A
New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, and Return of the Jedi) is an example of
a campaign with a single ongoing storyline. In this "campaign" we follow
the adventures of a central group of heroes—a group that changes slightly
over time as individual heroes come and go—who generally work together
to accomplish their goals.

Building a good Star Wars campaign is more than just stringing together
a bunch of adventures, though. The guidelines below should help you create
a rich, immersive campaign that is fun for both the players and the GM.

CREATE A CONTEXT

Before any other campaign-building task, you should decide the context
in which the players can place (and play) their heroes. While this context
doesn't have to be obvious to the players at the beginning of the campaign
(and indeed can change as play goes on), it greatly helps the Gamemaster
in designing adventures and encounter goals for the game.

Of course, this context will vary dramatically based on the era in which
you set your campaign. A plotline appropriate to heroes of the Rebellion
era might well be out of place in the days of the Old Republic. A variety of
context options exist for the Star Wars Roleplaying Game, a few of which
are listed below.

e Rebels plotting the overthrow of the Galactic Empire

© Envoys of the Jedi Council searching for evidence of the Sith

¢ Diplomats working for the Galactic Senate to foster peace and harmony
in the galaxy

e Representatives of the New Republic charged with hunting down rem-
nants of the Empire

e Private traders looking to gain wealth and influence

e Members of a mercenary team willing to work for the highest bidder

INCORPORATE INTERESTING

GM CHARACTERS

It's your job to portray everyone in the galaxy who isn't one of the heroes.
These people are all your characters, running the gamut from the feisty Jawa
who sold the heroes their astromech droid to the foul Sith Lord out to destroy
the Rebellion, or the Hutt crime lord holed up in the Tatooine desert.

Most people go about their own lives, oblivious to the actions of the
heroes and the events around them. Ordinary people whom they meet in a
spaceport won't notice them as being different from anyone else unless the
heroes do something to draw attention. In short, the rest of the galaxy doesn't
know the heroes are, in fact, heroes. It either treats them no differently from
anyone else, gives them no special breaks (or special penalties), or gives them
no special attention whatsoever. The heroes have to rely on their own actions.
If they are wise and kind, they make friends and garner respect. If they are
foolish or unruly, they make enemies and earn the enmity of all.

As you run your campaign, you need to portray all sorts of characters. Use
the following tips for creating and controlling interesting characters.

Villains and Opponents

Villains and opponents provide an outlet for play that is unique to being a
GM. Running the foes of the heroes is one of your main tasks, and one of
the most fun responsibilities. When creating opponents for the heroes, keep
the following in mind.

Plausible Villains: Flesh out enemies. Give a fair amount of thought
toward why enemies are doing what they do, why they are where they are,
and how they interact with all things around them. If you think of them as
just bad guys for the heroes to defeat, so will your players.

Intelligent Villains: Make the enemies as smart and resourceful as they
really would be—no more, no less. An average Trandoshan might not be the
best strategist, but Hutts are very intelligent and usually have schemes and
contingency plans.

Fallible Villains: Villains don't know everything, and even smart villains
sometimes leap to the wrong conclusions. Avoid the temptation to make
your villains omniscient, and let the heroes surprise them once in a while.
It'll make your villains seem more realistic and help the players feel like they
have the advantage from time to time.

ONIMELSEVWENYS |} PAR SSzavea-



--- Page 253 ---
)

SBNWIHSLSEYVWIWVYS)

Lackeys: Give your major villains underlings, employees, bodyguards,
and other lackeys whenever possible. At the same time, don't deny the
heroes the satisfaction of eventually having the opportunity to defeat the
major villain.

Allies

Most allies provide assistance to the heroes in the form of information,
resources, or safe places to hide from the Empire. These allies may be friends,
relatives, school chums, former coworkers, or anyone the heroes have met
during their adventures. The Gamemaster should plan such characters in as
much detail as necessary for the campaign. At the very least, a name, spe-
cies, and personality should be included in the GM's notes. Allies will have
attitudes of friendly or helpful toward the heroes.

On rare occasions, heroes may have allies who will join them on their
missions. This is most useful when the group of heroes is small or doesn't
cover the requisite skills for an adventure. Either the GM or one of the
players can run this type of GM character. Be careful not to overuse them,
because you don't want the players (and their heroes) to become reliant
on them.

BuILD ON CAMPAIGN EVENTS
Once you've finished setting up the campaign, don't think your work is done.
Without a living, reactive environment, even the most exciting context will
become stale. Use what's come before and prepare for what's still coming.
That's what makes a campaign different from a series of unrelated adven-
tures. Some strategies for maintaining a campaign by building on the past
include using recurring characters, having the heroes form relationships
beyond the immediate adventure, changing what the heroes know, hitting
them where it hurts, preparing the heroes for the future, and foreshadowing
coming events.

Recurring Characters: While this includes Tarnree, the bartender who's
there each time the heroes visit Mos Eisley, it extends to other characters
as well. The mysterious stranger they saw ina back alley of Coruscant reap-
pears on Naboo, revealing his identity and original intentions. The rogue
officer responsible for inciting mutiny returns, this time with a pirate crew
at his command. The other Jedi the heroes beat out for a prime position
as Council Envoy shows up again, after he has turned to the dark side. The
scoundrel who helped the heroes free the princess returns just in time for
a climactic battle. Overused recurring characters can make things seem
artificial, but when you reuse existing characters judiciously, it not only
lends realism, but also reminds heroes of their own past, reaffirming their
place in the campaign.

Deep Relationships: The heroes make friends with a local bartender and
visit him every time they are in town, just to hear another of his jokes. A hero
falls in love with a princess, and eventually, they marry. Old Yaris, a retired
soldier, looks upon the heroes as the children he never had. The Gungans of

Otoh Gunga deliver a present to the heroes every year on the anniversary of
the characters’ heroic victory over a battle droid army. These relationships
flesh out a campaign. :

Change What the Heroes Know: The Senator of Corulag is replaced by a
usurper. The once-dangerous trade routes are safe now, thanks to increased
patrols. A powerful group of corsairs defeats most of the pirates in the area.
Change a few details that you have already established. You establish both
what the players know now and what they knew before more firmly in their
minds. They'll also be intrigued to know why things changed.

Hit Them Where They Hurt: If a hero makes friends with the bartender
at the spaceport, then rule that his son was among those kidnapped when
the Imperials attacked. If the heroes really enjoy visiting Mos Espa, put Mos
Espa in the path of the worst sandstorm in memory. Don't overdo this, or
the heroes will never grow attached to anything for fear that it will put that
thing in danger. This strategy works as a powerful motivator when used in
moderation.

Foreshadowing: If you know that later in the campaign you want to have
an order of Dark Jedi rise up from secrecy and begin hunting Jedi, foreshadow
that event beforehand. Have the heroes hear rumors about Dark Jedi, or even
see evidence of them on an unrelated adventure long before they hunt down
and destroy Jedi. It will make the later adventure much more meaningful.
Threading information into previous adventures while hinting at future events
helps weave a campaign into a whole.

HAZARDS

A hazard includes any effect that can cause harm but does not have a
stat block. Most hazards are self-contained dangers that affect anyone
or anything that comes into contact with them. A scorching desert, a
toxic or corrosive atmosphere, and a virulent disease are all examples
of hazards.

Hazards affect organic creatures, machines, or both. A hazard resolves
its effects by making an attack roll against one of the target's defense
scores; if the attack succeeds, the target suffers the effects of the hazard,
including damage that may require special actions to treat. A hazard may
affect all targets within an area or a single target, depending on its nature
and its range.

ACID
Corrosive acid deals damage on contact.

Acid (CL 2): When a target comes into contact with acid, make an attack
roll (1d20+5) against the target's Fortitude Defense. If the attack succeeds,
the character takes 2d6 points of acid damage. If the attack misses, the
target takes half damage that round. This attack occurs again each round
until the acid is washed off or treated (requiring a DC 15 Treat Injury check
and a medical kit).


--- Page 254 ---
ATMOSPHERIC HAZARDS

Atmospheric hazards cannot be avoided, although gear can sometimes
protect a character from them. Atmospheric hazards are not considered
area effects.

Corrosive Atmosphere (CL 4): A corrosive atmosphere has chemicals
that can eat away at everything from armor to organic flesh. Each round a
character is exposed to a corrosive atmosphere, make an attack roll (1d20+5)
against the character's Fortitude Defense. If the attack succeeds, the char-
acter takes 2d6 points of acid damage. If the attack misses, the character
takes half damage that round.

Toxic Atmosphere (CL 6): A toxic atmosphere is filled with chemicals
that harm most living beings. Each round a creature is exposed to a toxic
atmosphere, make an attack roll (1d20+5) against the character's Fortitude

Defense. If the attack succeeds, the creature takes 1d6 points of damage
and moves -1 persistent step on the condition track (see Conditions, page
148). If the attack misses, the creature takes half damage that round and
does not move down the condition track.

Vacuum (CL 8): When a creature is exposed to vacuum, make an attack
roll (1d20+20) against the character's Fortitude Defense. If the attack suc-
ceeds, the creature takes 1d6 points of damage and moves -2 steps down
the condition track. If the attack fails, the creature takes no damage but
moves —1 step down the condition track. The target cannot move back up
the condition track until it is returned to a breathable atmosphere. A crea-
ture knocked unconscious by exposure to a vacuum automatically takes a
cumulative 1d6 points of damage each round (that is, 1d6 the first round,
2d6 the second, 3d6 the third, and so on). If this damage ever exceeds the
creature's damage threshold, it dies.

AlX SSicdvHa

SNIHSELSYWIWYS)



--- Page 255 ---
ic=))

@eNIHSLSYVWSEWY

eee

BLINDNESS

A blinded creature can't see and takes a -2 penalty to Reflex Defense, loses
its Dexterity bonus to Reflex Defense (if any), moves at half speed, and takes
a -5 penalty on Perception checks. All opponents are considered to have
total concealment (page 156) to the blinded creature. All checks and actions
that rely on vision (such as reading) fail automatically.

CRUSHING HAZARDS

Some hazards, such as hydraulic walls or doors, can deal continual crushing
damage to anyone or anything trapped inside. Crushing hazards require
no attack roll as long as the target is completely encompassed by the
hazard.

Trash Compactor (CL 10): The powerful hydraulic walls of a trash
compactor normally take 10 rounds to close. Any creature inside the trash
compactor once it closes completely takes 10d6 points of damage per round
(no attack roll required). After 5 rounds, the walls retract, taking 10 rounds
to open fully.

DISEASE

Diseases are viruses and other organisms that attack the immune systems of
living creatures. Disease hazards always attack the Fortitude Defense of a
target, ignoring equipment bonuses to Fortitude Defense, damage reduction,
and shield rating. They cause persistent conditions if they move you down the
condition track (see Conditions, page 148). The persistent condition cannot
be removed until the disease is cured (see Treat Injury skill, page 74) or until
the disease fails its attack roll against you twice. Unlike other hazards, some
diseases may require special equipment or medicine to treat.Diseases affect
only living creatures; droids and vehicles are immune. Airborne diseases are
considered atmospheric hazards.

Cardooine Chills (CL 2): The first time a character is exposed to the Car-
dooine chills, make an attack roll (1d20+2) against the character's Fortitude
Defense. If the attack succeeds, the character takes 1d6 points of damage
and moves -1 persistent step down the condition track (see Conditions, page
148). This attack occurs again each day the disease remains untreated. Treat-
ing the disease requires a successful DC 15 Treat Injury check.

Krytos Virus (CL 5): The Krytos virus is a bioengineered disease pro-
duced by the Empire. The first time a creature is exposed to the Krytos
virus, make an attack roll (1d20+10) against its Fortitude Defense. Apply a
-5 penalty to the attack roll if the target is Human. If the attack succeeds,
the creature takes 2d6 points of damage and moves -1 persistent step down
the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). This attack occurs again
each day the disease remains untreated. Treating the disease requires a
successful DC 20 Treat Injury check. Using a bacta tank reduces the Treat
Injury DC to 15.

EXTREME TEMPERATURES

The blistering desert of Tatooine or the chill winds of Hoth can quickly
overcome even the toughest heroes, and creatures ill-equipped to handle
such conditions quickly succumb to heatstroke or hypothermia. Extreme
temperatures are not considered area effects.

Extreme Heat or Cold (CL 4): Each hour a creature is exposed to
extreme heat or cold, make an attack roll (1d20+5) against the character's
Fortitude Defense. If the attack succeeds, the character takes 2d6 points
of damage from heatstroke or hypothermia and moves -1 persistent step
down the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). If the attack misses, the
character takes half damage and does not move down the condition track.
Heavy clothing or armor provides a +5 equipment bonus to your Fortitude
Defense to resist extreme cold but imposes a -5 penalty to your Fortitude
Defense to resist extreme heat.

A creature suffering from heatstroke or hypothermia cannot regain hit
points or improve its condition until it spends at least 1 hour in a normal
environment.

FALLING OBUECTS
Just as creatures take damage when they fall, so too do they take damage
when hit by falling objects. When a creature could be hit by a falling object,
make an attack roll (using the attack bonus listed in Table 14-2: Damage
from Falling Objects) against the target's Reflex Defense. If the attack suc-
ceeds, the target takes the listed damage. If the attack misses, the target
takes half damage. This is considered an area attack. Objects of Fine and
Diminutive size are too small to deal damage, regardless of the distance
fallen. A falling object must land wholly or partly in a creature's fighting
space to damage the creature.

The GM may adjust the damage depending on the circumstances, For
example, a Colossal object might be extremely light (such as a gas-filled

ATTACK STRENGTH
OBJECT SIZE EXAMPLE(S) BONUS DAMAGE CHECK DC
Tiny Blaster, datapad 5 ea.
Small Blaster rifle -2 1d6 -
Medium Locker, heavy armor +0 26
Large Speeder bike +2 4d6
Huge Landspeeder #5 CG
Gargantuan Starfighter +10 12d6
Colossal AT-AT a



--- Page 256 ---
passenger balloon). Objects that are forced downward (such as a piston
in a droid factory or a closing door) deal damage as if they were two
size categories larger than they actually are. Additionally, if the target is
at least three size categories smaller than the falling object, the target
cannot move unless it succeeds on a Strength check to lift the object off
itself (see Table 14-2 for the Strength check DC) or a DC 15 Acrobatics
check to craw! out from underneath. The GM can modify the DCs for
either check based on the circumstances; for example, a character might
find herself trapped under an object that has openings or gaps that allow
her to wriggle free.

FiReE

A creature or character that takes fire damage also catches on fire. For
each round that a creature is on fire, make an attack roll (1d20+5) against
the target's Fortitude Defense. If the attack succeeds the target takes 1d6
points of fire damage; if the attack fails, the target takes only half damage.
A character can put out the flames as a full-round action.

POISON

In Attack of the Clones, Zam Wesell attempts to assassinate Senator Padmé
Amidala using poisonous centipedelike creatures called kouhuns. Later, Zam
herself is slain by a poisoned Kamino saberdart. In The Phantom Menace,
the Neimoidians pump poisonous gas into the conference room of their
Trade Federation battleship in a vain attempt to dispatch Qui-Gon Jinn and
Obi-Wan Kenobi.

Poison hazards are toxins that can be ingested, inhaled, or contracted
through contact. They always attack the Fortitude Defense of a target,
ignoring equipment bonuses to Fortitude Defense, damage reduction, and
shield rating. They cause persistent conditions if they move you down the
condition track (see Conditions, page 148). The persistent condition cannot be
removed until the poison is cured (see Treat Injury skill, page 74) or until the
poison fails its attack roll against you once. Contact poisons can be applied

to weapons; when a poisoned weapon damages the target, the poison then
makes its attack against the target's Fortitude Defense.

A creature that dies from poison damage can be revived (see the revivify
ability of the Treat Injury skill, page 74). However, reviving a creature doesn't
remove the poison from its system; the poison must be treated separately.

A character wearing a functional breath mask (see page 136) is immune
to inhaled poisons, including toxic gases and atmospheres. Poisons affect
only living creatures; droids and vehicles are immune.

Dioxis (CL 8): Dioxis is an inhaled gas. Each round a living creature is
exposed to dioxis, make an attack roll (1d20+10) against the target's Forti-
tude Defense. If the attack succeeds, the target takes 4d6 points of damage
and moves -1 step along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). If
the attack fails, the target takes only half damage and doesn't move down
the condition track. The poison attacks each round until cured with a suc-
cessful DC 25 Treat Injury check.

Knockout Drops (CL 2): When a creature ingests knockout drops, make
an attack roll (1d20+5) against the target's Fortitude Defense. If the attack
succeeds, the target takes moves -1 step along the condition track. The
poison attacks each round until cured with a successful DC 15 Treat Injury
check.

Paralytic Poison (CL 5): When a living creature is injected with a para-
lytic poison, make an attack roll (1d20+10) against the target's Fortitude
Defense. If the attack succeeds, the target moves -1 step along the condi-
tion track. A target moved to the end of the condition track by the poison
is immobilized, but not unconscious. The poison attacks each round until
cured with a successful DC 15 Treat Injury check.

RADIATION

Radiation hazards always attack the Fortitude Defense of a target, ignore
damage reduction and shield rating, and cause persistent conditions if they
move you down the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). The persistent
condition cannot be removed until the radiation is cured (see Treat Injury
skill, page 74).

RADIATION ATTACK RADIATION —- TREAT INJURY
TYPE BONUS DAMAGE pc

Moderate (CL 4) +2 4d6 20

Extreme (CL 10) +10 8d6 30



--- Page 257 ---
ONIHMSELSVWIWYVS |

Each round a creature is exposed to a harmful dose of radiation, make an
attack roll (1d20 + the radiation's attack bonus) against the target's Fortitude
Defense. If the attack fails, the target shrugs off the radiation and suffers
none of its effects. If the result hits, the target moves the -1 persistent step
along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148) and takes an amount
of radiation damage based on the radiation's strength, as shown in Table
14-3: Radiation. The Treat Injury check DC to heal this radiation damage is
dependent on the classification of the radiation.

A creature that dies from radiation exposure can be revived (see the
revivify ability of the Treat Injury skill, page 74). However, reviving a crea-
ture doesn't remove the radiation from its system; the radiation must be
treated separately.

SMOKE
Characters breathing heavy smoke, ash, or other toxic gases are subject to
smoke hazards. Each round a character is exposed to a smoke hazard, make
an attack roll (1d20+5) against the target's Fortitude Defense. If the attack
succeeds, the target takes 1d6 points of damage and moves -1 step down
the condition track (see Conditions, page 148). If the attack fails, the target
takes half damage and does not move down the condition track.

Smoke grants concealment to characters within it (see Concealment,
page 156). Smoke is an atmospheric hazard.

Traps and Security Systems

Military bases, criminal hideouts, and other facilities often have security
systems in place to deter intruders. The Detention Block of the Death Star
is an example of a location laden with traps designed to halt unauthorized
incursions.

Set Explosive (CL 2 or 5): A set explosive usually takes the form of
detonite or an explosive charge (see Explosives, page 130). When a set explo-
sive detonates, make an attack roll (1d20+10) against the Reflex Defense
of every creature and object in its blast radius. (Any creature or object to
which the explosive is attached is hit automatically.) If the attack succeeds,

the creature or object takes full damage. If the attack misses, the creature
or object takes half damage. This is considered an area effect. Detonite is a
CL 2 hazard; an explosive charge is a CL 5 hazard.

Blaster Turret (CL 2): This robotic blaster turret is usually mounted to
a section of floor, wall, or ceiling. It has the range of a pistol, can fire in any
direction, and has the following trained skills: Initiative +5, Perception +5.
It is equipped with darkvision (page 257) and makes one attack per round
against the closest target within its line of sight. Make an attack roll (1d20+5)
against the target's Reflex Defense. If the attack succeeds, the target takes
3d6 points of energy damage; on a miss, the target takes no damage.

Blaster Rifle Turret (CL 3): The blaster rifle turret is a slightly larger
variant of the blaster turret. It is statistically identical to its smaller cousin
except as noted here. It has the range of a rifle and can fire either single
shots or switch to autofire mode (see Autofire, page 156). It deals 3d8 points
of energy damage with each successful attack.

GRAVITY

The force that gravity exerts on a person determines how they develop physi-
cally as well as their ability to perform certain actions. In addition, gravity
affects the amount of damage a character takes from falling.

Gravity conditions may vary considerably from one environment to the
next. However, for ease of play, the Star Wars Roleplaying Game presents
four simplified gravity environments: normal gravity (0.8 to 1.2 g), low
gravity (0.1 to 0.8 g), high gravity (more than 1.2 g), and zero gravity (less
than 0.1 g). The following sections summarize the game effects for each
type of environment.

NORMAL GRAVITY

Normal gravity imposes no special modifiers on a character's ability scores,
attack rolls, or skill checks. Likewise, normal gravity does not modify a
creature's speed, carrying capacity, or the amount of damage it takes from
a fall.

LOW-GRAVITY ENVIRONMENTS
In a low-gravity environment, it becomes easier to move and lift heavy
objects as well as perform Strength-related tasks. In addition, you take less
damage from falling.

Speed: Your speed increases by one-quarter (round down to nearest
square, minimum 1). This bonus applies to all of your modes of movement.

Carrying Capacity: Your normal carrying capacity is doubled. In addition,
you gain a +2 bonus on any Strength check made to lift or move a heavy
unsecured object.

Skill Check Bonuses: You gain a +2 circumstance bonus on Strength-
based skill checks (including Climb, Jump, and Swim checks).


--- Page 258 ---
Attack Roll Penalty: You take a -2 penalty on attack rolls unless you
are native to low-gravity environments or have the Spacehound talent (see
page 47).

Damage from Falling: Roll d4s instead of d6s when calculating falling
damage (see Falling Damage, page 255).

MIGH-GRAVITY ENVIRONMENTS

In a high-gravity environment, the pull of gravity is significantly greater than
normal. Although an object's mass doesn't change, it becomes effectively
heavier. It becomes harder to move and carry heavy objects as well as perform
Strength-related tasks. In addition, you take more damage from falling. Even
the simple task of walking or lifting one's arms feels more laborious.

Speed: Your speed decreases to three-quarters normal (round down to
the nearest square, minimum 1 square). This penalty applies to all modes
of movement.

Carrying Capacity: Your normal carrying capacity is halved. In addition,
you take a -2 penalty on any Strength check made to lift or move a heavy
unsecured object.

Skill Check Penalties: You take a -2 penalty on Strength-based skill
checks (including Climb, Jump, and Swim checks).

Attack Roll Penalty: You take a -2 penalty on attack rolls unless you
are native to high-gravity environments or you have the Spacehound talent
(see page 47).

Damage from Falling: Roll d8s instead of d6s when calculating falling
damage (see Falling Damage, page 255).

ZERO-GRAVITY ENVIRONMENTS
Creatures in a zero-gravity environment can move enormously heavy objects.
As movement in zero gravity requires only the ability to grab onto or push
away from larger objects, Climb and Jump checks no longer apply.

Most creatures find zero-gravity environments disorienting, taking
penalties on their attack rolls and suffering the effects of space sickness.
In addition, creatures in zero gravity are easier to bull rush than in other
gravity environments.

Space Sickness: When a living creature is exposed to weightlessness,
make an attack roll (1d20+0) against its Fortitude Defense. If the attack
succeeds, the character moves -1 persistent step down the condition track
(see Conditions, page 148). This persistent condition cannot be removed
without a DC 20 Treat Injury check, or after eight hours, whichever comes
first. This attack recurs after 8 hours but does not recur again after that.
Creatures with the Spacehound talent (see page 47) and droids do not suffer
the effects of space sickness.

Speed: In a zero-gravity environment, a creature gains a fly speed equal
to its base land speed, or it retains its natural fly speed (whichever is greater).
However, movement is limited to straight lines only; a creature can change
course only by pushing away from larger objects (such as bulkheads).

Carrying Capacity: Your normal carrying capacity increases by 10 times
in a zero-gravity environment. In addition, you gain a +10 circumstance bonus
on any Strength check made to lift or move a heavy unsecured object.

Attack Roll Penalty: You take a -5 penalty on attack rolls and skill checks
while operating in a zero-gravity environment unless you are native to that
environment or have the Spacehound talent (see page 47).

Long-Term Exposure: Long-term exposure to zero-gravity conditions
can cause serious problems when returning to normal gravity. A creature that
spends 120 hours or more in a zero-gravity environment moves -2 persistent
steps down the condition track upon returning to normal gravity. These steps
down the condition track cannot be removed unless the character spends at
least 24 hours in normal gravity.

VISIBILITY

It's a rare mission that doesn't end up in the dark somewhere, and heroes
need a way to see. See Table 14-4: Light Sources for the radius that a light
source illuminates and how long it lasts. A light source also provides shadowy
illumination out to twice this distance; targets within shadowy illumination
gain concealment (see page 156), but they are visible. Without a light source,
heroes are effectively blinded (see Blindness, page 254).

DARKVISION

A creature or droid that has this ability can see in the dark, ignoring conceal-
ment and total concealment due to darkness. Darkvision is black and white only,
so there must be at least some light to discern colors. It is otherwise like normal
sight, and a creature with darkvision can function with no light at all.

LOW-LIGHT VISION

A creature or droid that has low-light vision can see without penalty in
shadowy illumination, ignoring concealment (but not total concealment)
due to darkness. It retains the ability to distinguish color and detail under
these conditions.

ITEM LIGHT DURATION

Torch 3 squares 2 hours

6 hours

Glow rod

3 squares*

* Creates a beam 6 squares long and 1 square high.

Alix esiavns

ONINELSEVNENVE |



--- Page 259 ---
ER LLAMA RSLS TEL LITLE TT LEN

CHAPTER XV
AS OF PLA



--- Page 260 ---
the Gamemaster, you are free to set your Star Wars campaign in any time
iod. However, the core rulebook focuses on three eras in particular: the
of the Empire era, the Rebellion era, and The New Jedi Order era. The
n mation presented in this chapter is intended to give you enough of a
d drop to comfortably set adventures in any of these eras.
le Rise of the Empire era represents a time of political unrest: the slow
olution and ultimate demise of the Old Republic, the rise to power of
chancellor Palpatine, and the Clone Wars. Specifically, it's the years around
» Star Wars Episode |: The Phantom Menace, Episode II: Attack of the Clones,
~ and Episode III: Revenge of the Sith.
~The Rebellion era covers the time of the Galactic Civil War, as depicted
in Episode IV: A New Hope, Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back, and Episode
VI: Return of the Jedi.
Finally, The New Jedi Order era is set twenty-five years after A New Hope.
The New Republic has been established, and Luke Skywalker's Jedi Knights are
growing stronger. This era begins with the costly Yuuzhan Vong War, which
reshapes much of the politics of the galaxy. This is the time eriod detaile
in the Del Rey novel series.
Other Star Wars eras hav

E OF THE

e mM ad ' RE ERA
22 to 32 Years before A New Hope

A campaign set in this era focuses on the slow decline and corruption of
the Republic. As The Phantom Menace comes to an end, the future for the
galaxy looks bright. The charismatic and popular Palpatine has been elected
as Supreme Chancellor, the Trade Federation has seemingly been dismantled,
and the Jedi Knights are at their peak of power and influence. However, there's
a sinister shadow creeping across the galaxy. The vile Sith have returned.
Crime is on the rise. Politicians continue to bicker and look after their own
petty interests. Nothing is what it seems.

The Phantom Menace unfolds with a galaxy torn asunder by strife, hatred,
and greed. Led by a charismatic Separatist named Count Dooku, thousands of
worlds have broken away from the Republic. This “confederacy of independent
systems" wants to free itself from the yoke of the corrupt Senate, unaware
that their galactic insurrection could spell the rise of an even greater evil.

As war foments and erupts between the Republic and the Separatists,
plenty of opportunities for adventure present themselves. Heroes working for
the Supreme Chancellor, the Jedi Council, or Count Dooku might undertake
assignments to stem the tide of decay that grows stronger with every passing
year. Remember that no matter what you or your players might think they
know about Chancellor Palpatine, most people living in this era consider

VAX SSidvH5

=]
j



--- Page 261 ---
LINE) PO SVE)

Palpatine a good, fair leader and the best hope of the Republic. His true
machinations have yet to reveal themselves. Similarly, Count Dooku seems
to have the best interests of the galaxy at heart. Under his august leadership,
he seeks a galaxy restored to order and prosperity. No one suspects that this
former Jedi Master has fallen to the dark side of the Force.

During the era, all species are equal. For every Human senator, there
are many more alien species on the Senate. Some species from
the later eras haven't been encountered yet (such as Ewoks),
and some have made only cursory visits to the galaxy (such
as the advance scouts from the Yuuzhan Vong). The order
of the Jedi Knights is held together by the Jedi Council,
and some ten thousand Knights roam the galaxy as the
defenders of the Republic. Many more Force-sensi-
tive beings train in Jedi academies throughout
the Republic, each hoping to be selected as a
Padawan learner. Those who aren't selected
for advanced training use the skills they
have acquired to help the Republic in some
other way. Some, for example, become
farmers in the Agri-Corps or healers in
the Medi-Corps.

Corrupt officials, various criminals,
evil corporations, assassins, petty
warlords, and dark Jedi abound in this
time frame. New worlds still await
discovery, and new alien species are
encountered all the time. Any of
these topics can become the seeds
for great adventures. Remember
also that the Jedi Council wants
to learn more about the new
Sith menace. From its chamber
high atop the Jedi Temple in
Coruscant, the capital world of
the Republic, the Jedi Council
quietly directs key members
of the Jedi order to investi-
gate incidents that might
somehow be tied to the Sith.
Although the Sith started
as an empire controlled
by corrupt Jedi, eventu-
ally Darth Bane altered
the nature of the Sith
forever. He dictated the
rule of the new Sith

DARTH VADER

order: There could be only two Sith at any time, a master
and an apprentice. This doesn't limit the number of
followers and lackeys the Sith could utilize, just the
number of actual Sith.

In Revenge of the Sith, Chancellor Palpatine reveals
to Anakin Skywalker that he is, in fact, the Sith Lord
Darth Sidious. By this time, he has already lost two
apprentices (Darth Maul and Darth Tyranus) battling
the Jedi. However, he creates an apparent crisis that
encourages the senators of the Republic to vote
him permanent powers, making him emperor of the
galaxy. Darth Sidious strikes down the Jedi with his

new clone trooper army and takes Anakin Skywalker
as his new Sith apprentice, Darth Vader. His victory
nearly complete, Darth Sidious sets Darth Vader on
a path to hunt down the remaining Jedi while he

sweeps away the last vestiges of the Old Republic.

Heroes of this time might be Jedi on the run or

fledgling members of what will eventually become

the Rebel Alliance.

THE
REBELLION

ERA

(0 to 5 Years after A New Hope)

The Emperor rules with an iron will. His key sup-
porters include Dark Lord Darth Vader, Moffs and
Grand Moffs of varying degrees of power and influence,

military commanders, and a variety of secret police, spies,

and assassins. The feared agents of the Imperial Security
Bureau (the ISB) scour the galaxy for traitors and Rebels.
The once-great Jedi Order has been eliminated, and only
a handful of Force-sensitive individuals remain in hiding
on out-of-the-way planets—other than those darksiders
working for the Emperor's New Order.

The Senate has been disbanded. The HoloNet has been
restricted. The Core worlds have been effectively cut off
from the rest of the galaxy. Alderaan, a world of peace
and influence, has been destroyed. The Emperor's Grand
Admirals command the vast Imperial military machine, and
hundreds of worlds have been tasked with keeping that

machine going—no matter what the cost. New weapons
of war appear regularly, from modified stormtroopers to
walkers, TIE fighters to Star Destroyers. Interdictor cruis-
ers capable of pulling ships out of hyperspace are seeing


--- Page 262 ---
wider use. No starship, private or otherwise, is safe from Imperial inspection,
and boardings occur on a regular basis.

Heroes in this era probably work for the Rebel Alliance. They can be part
of a Rebel cell, attached directly to Alliance High Command, or independents
drawn to the Alliance's cause. In addition to the Empire, opponents in this
period include crime lords, smugglers, bounty hunters, and traitors to the
Alliance. It's up to the heroes to help turn the tide of Imperial domination.

THE New JEDI ORDER

ERA
(25 Years after A New Hope)

In this era the New Republic is in place, although a small Imperial remnant
maintains control of a portion of the galaxy. The Jedi, on the rise again thanks
to the efforts of Luke Skywalker, are at a crossroads. Some members of the
order, which numbers about one hundred individuals, want to take a more
direct and deliberate role in galactic affairs. Skywalker, meanwhile, is strug-
gling with whether or not he wants to reestablish the Jedi Council. Rash Jedi
have led New Republic officials to be wary of the Knights and suspicious of
their true motives. Indeed, this leads to varying degrees of mistrust and even
fear in the general populace, many of whom still remember the Emperor's
anti-Jedi rhetoric from years before.

The first galaxy-wide threat in the New Jedi order era is the Yuuzhan Vong
invasion. It begins with Nom Anor, a spy who sows additional seeds of discord
throughout the galaxy. His efforts give rise to antitechnology cults dedicated to
the destruction of innocent droids. Masking his true identity, he recruits agents
from the native populations to carry out acts of sabotage and subversion. Nom
Anor, however, is only the beginning of the Yuuzhan Vong threat.

The Yuuzhan Vong are humanoids that follow a religion of pain and nature.
They hate machines of all kinds, using instead living technology that they
have bioengineered to serve as ships, weapons, and tools. These fierce, holy
warriors seek to conquer the galaxy and bring their faith to the infidels who
regularly make use of unclean machines. Their invasion begins on far-flung
worlds such as Belkadan and Helska, but they quickly widen their hold on key
sectors of the Outer Rim and Mid Rim, terraforming worlds to produce the
yorik coral and other living materials that serve as their ships and weapons.
The Jedi learn, to their horror, that this intractable new enemy cannot be
sensed through the Force. The Jedi, former guardians of peace, become the
hunted prey of the Yuuzhan Vong. Meanwhile, the extragalactic intruders
continue their relentless advance toward the Core, crushing any force that
dares stand in their way. A few worlds surrender without a fight, while those
that resist are rendered uninhabitable. In time Coruscant itself falls, signaling
the death of the New Republic.

Eventually the Yuuzhan Vong discover their history may not be as they
thought, when the living planet Zonama Sekot came to Coruscant and fought
defensively against the Yuuzhan Vong, “welcoming home it's true inhabit-

ants.” The new Galactic Federation of Free Alliances (Galactic Alliance) allows
the Yuuzhan Vong to surrender and take Zonama Sekot as their homeworld.
While not all Yuuzhan Vong accept this, the primary threat of the Yuuzhan
Vong ends as Zonama Sekot flies into hyperspace to seek a new home for
the Yuuzhan Vong in the Unknown Regions.

Though the war is over, many threats still exist. Some Yuuzhan Vong and
their cults still fight against technological civilization. The Galactic Alliance
has to rebuild the galaxy. And the New Jedi Order seeks out threats to peace
and justice.

MAIN CHARACTERS

The following section describes the main protagonists from the Star Wars
feature films.

va
a

YOUR

Fy 1°" ed

DARTH VWADER

ANAKIN SKYWALKER

(DARTH VADER)

Anakin Skywalker's destiny and the fate of the entire galaxy are linked
inexorably. After being freed by Qui-Gon Jinn, Anakin studies the ways of the
Jedi under Obi-Wan Kenobi, but he allows feelings of anger, fear, and hate
to enslave him. The death of his mother and visions of Padme's death drive
him to seek out the wisdom offered by a Sith Lord. In pursuing the power
necessary to preserve Padme's life, Anakin becomes death incarnate,

As Darth Vader, he uses the power of the dark side of the Force to betray
and murder his fellow Jedi and enslave the galaxy. Over two decades later,
his son Luke—now a Jedi himself—leads Anakin back to the light. He finds
redemption in his sacrifice, bringing balance to the Force by ending the
tyranny of the Emperor and the Sith.

Darth Vader (Episode IV) CL 19

Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5/ace pilot 2/Sith apprentice 2/Sith
Lord 3

Destiny 3; Force 8, Strong in the Force; Dark Side 14

Init +17; Senses low-light vision; Perception +11 VY

Languages Basic, Binary, Huttese

Defenses Ref 39 (flat-footed 36), Fort 36, Will 33; Block, Deflect V
hp 181; Threshold 36

Ax SeSidaveia

MIE) JO SVS)



--- Page 263 ---
=)
3

AM HSiavHD

SINE) SO SVE)

V

Immune fear effects, atmospheric and inhaled poison hazards
Weakness life support

Speed 6 squares

Melee lightsaber +22 (2d8+17) or

Melee lightsaber +20 (3d8+17) with Rapid Strike or

Melee lightsaber +17/+17 (2d8+17) with Double Attack or

Melee lightsaber +15/+15 (3d8+17) with Double Attack and
Rapid Strike

Ranged by weapon +20

Base Atk +17; Grp +20

Atk Options Double Attack, Rapid Strike, Severing
Strike

Special Actions Djem So, Redirect Shot,
temptation

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +17):
farseeing, Force disarm, Force grip, Force
slam, Force thrust, move object, negate
energy, rebuke, surge

Force Secrets Distant Power, Multitarget
Power

Force Techniques Force Point Recovery,
Improved Move Light Object, Improved Sense
Force

Abilities Str 16, Dex 16, Con 17, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 15

Special Qualities life support

Talents Armored Defense, Block, Dark Side Adept, Deflect,
Djem So, Force Pilot, Improved Armored Defense, Redirect
Shot, Severing Strike, Vehicular Evasion, Weapon
Specialization (lightsabers)

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Double Attack
(lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Rapid
Strike, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Strong in the Force,
Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons)

Skills Initiative +17, Mechanics +16, Pilot +17, Use the
Force +17 (may reroll when using [dark side] Force powers)

Possessions custom armor (treat as armored flight suit with
helmet package; modified, +8 armor bonus), lightsaber

(self-built), cybernetic prosthetics (4, both arms and legs), Sith

robes, utility belt with medpac

Life Support—Due to injuries sustained on Mustafar, Darth
Vader is completely dependent on the life support
granted by his armor or by special sealed chambers
designed specifically for him. Without this special life

support, Vader begins to suffocate (see Hold Breath, page 66).

OBI-WAN KENOBI
A student of Yoda and Qui-Gon Jinn, Obi-Wan Kenobi
exemplifies all that is noble and heroic about the Jedi. As a
Padawan, he defeats Darth Maul after the Sith Lord strikes down
Qui-Gon Jinn. Later, he is promoted to the rank of Jedi Knight and
given the responsibility to train Anakin Skywalker, then just a child.
Over the next thirteen years, even into the Clone Wars, the two Jedi
become more than student and teacher—they became the truest
of friends.

As a general in the Clone Wars, Obi-Wan survives his clones'
assassination attempt when Palpatine issues Order 66, and in the
Jedi Temple he sees horrible evidence of Anakin's fall to the dark
side. Despite the crushing pain it causes him, Obi-Wan faces
Anakin (now Darth Vader) on Mustafar, ultimately leaving
the new Sith apprentice half-dead by a river of lava. Obi-
Wan, together with Yoda and Bail Organa, arranges to hide
Anakin and Padmé's newborn twins. Almost two decades
later, Obi-Wan Kenobi comes out of the Tatooine desert
on one last desperate mission, realizing his destiny to once

more face his old apprentice.

Obi-Wan Kenobi (Episode III) CL 14
Medium Human Jedi 7/Jedi Knight 5/Jedi Master 2
Destiny 2; Force 7
Init +15; Senses Perception +9
Languages Basic, Shyriiwook
Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 27), Fort 29, Will 29;
Block, Deflect, Soresu
hp 129; Threshold 29
Immune fear effects
Speed 6 squares
Melee lightsaber +20 (2d8+13) or
Melee lightsaber +15/+15 (2d8+13) with
Double Attack
Ranged by weapon +16
Base Atk +14; Grp +17
Atk Options Double Attack, Severing Strike
Special Actions Combat Reflexes, Equilibrium,
Redirect Shot, serenity
Force Powers Known (Use the Force +19):
farseeing, Force slam (2), mind trick (2),
move object, rebuke, surge, vital transfer
Force Secrets Quicken Power
Force Techniques Force Point Recovery (2),
Improved Move Light Object

OBI-WAN KENOBI


--- Page 264 ---
Abilities Str 15, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 13, Wis 14, Cha 15

Talents Block, Deflect, Equilibrium, Greater Weapon Focus (lightsabers),
Redirect Shot, Severing Strike, Soresu, Weapon Specialization
(lightsabers)

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Combat Reflexes, Double Attack
(lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3), Skill Focus (Use
the Force), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon
Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons)

Skills Acrobatics +15, Initiative +15, Use the Force +19

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), comlink (encrypted), Jedi robes, utility
belt with medpac

PADME AMIDALA

Once the youngest elected Queen of the planet Naboo, Padmé Amidala later
becomes the senator for her homeworld. Throughout her political career, she
remains a tireless champion of democracy and diplomacy, fighting until the
end to prevent Supreme Chancellor Palpatine from creating the Grand Army
of the Republic and later transforming the government into the Galactic
Empire. Her efforts to coordinate dissidents ultimately lead to the formation
of the Rebel Alliance.

Padmé falls in love with Anakin Skywalker when he is assigned to protect
her at the outset of the Clone Wars. They are married secretly and keep their
relationship hidden, even when she becomes pregnant. After Anakin falls
to the dark side, she confronts him with tragic consequences. Though she
survives her injuries, her destiny is realized when she trades her life for the
lives of her newborn twins.

Senator Padmé Amidala (Episode III) CL 10
Medium Human noble 10

Destiny 2; Force 5, Strong in the Force

Init +12; Senses Perception +18

Languages Basic, Gran, Gungan, High Galactic, Mon Calamarian, Rodese
Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 22), Fort 22, Will 26

hp 59; Threshold 22

Speed 6 squares

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+5)

Ranged sporting blaster pistol +9 (3d4+5) or

Ranged sporting blaster pistol +4/+4 (3d4+5) with Double Attack

Base Atk +7; Grp +9

Atk Options Double Attack, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot

Special Actions Born Leader, Coordinate +1

Talents Born Leader, Coordinate, Trust, Wanted Alive, Wealth
Feats Double Attack (pistols), Improved Defenses, Linguist, Point Blank
Shot, Precise Shot, Skill Focus (Deception, Gather Information,

phuliities Str 10, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 15, Wis 16, Cha 18

Knowledge [bureaucracy], Perception, Persuasion), Strong in the Force,
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons)

Skills Deception +19, Gather Information +19, Initiative +12, Knowledge
(bureaucracy) +17, Knowledge (galactic lore) +12, Knowledge (social
sciences) +12, Perception +18, Persuasion +19

Possessions sporting blaster pistol, comlink, senatorial wardrobe,
astromech droid (R2-D2)

LUKE SKYWALKER

A farm boy on the remote desert world of Tatooine, young Luke Skywalker
never dreamt that his destiny would shape the fate of the entire galaxy.
He studies under Obi-Wan Kenobi, destroys the Death Star over Yavin, and
becomes a Jedi Knight with Master Yoda's guidance. He goes on to redeem

SENATOR PADME AMIDALA

AX BSalavHo

SYNE) SO SVE)



--- Page 265 ---
AX HSLagvHo

Ie) dO SYS)

his father, Anakin Skywalker (now Darth Vader), helping to end the reign
of the Empire.

In the decades that follow, Luke helps to build the fledgling New Republic,
founds the Jedi Praxeum on Yavin 4, raises a new order of Jedi, and fights
back the menace of the Yuuzhan Vong invasion.
Luke Skywalker (Episode VI) CL 11
Medium Human scout 1/Jedi 7/ace pilot 2/Jedi Knight 1
Destiny 2; Force 5, Strong in the Force; Dark Side 3
Init +13; Senses Perception +12
Languages Basic, Huttese, Shyriiwook

LUKE SKYWALKER

Defenses Ref 26 (flat-footed 23), Fort 25, Will 25; Block, Deflect, Evasion
hp 99; Threshold 25 VY
Speed 6 squares

Melee lightsaber +14 (2d8+11) or

Melee lightsaber +9/+10 (2d8+11) with Double Attack VY

Ranged blaster pistol +12 (3d6)

Base Atk +9; Grp +12

Atk Options Double Attack, Severing Strike

Special Actions Melee Defense Redirect Shot

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +16): mind trick, move object, surge

Abilities Str 14, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 15

Talents Block, Deflect, Evasion, Redirect Shot, Severing Strike, Weapon VY
Specialization (lightsabers)

Feats Double Attack (lightsabers), Force Sensitivity, Force Training, Melee
Defense, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Strong in the Force, Vehicular
Combat, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus (lightsabers), Weapon
Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, rifles, simple weapons)

Skills Initiative +13, Mechanics +12, Perception +12, Pilot +13, Ride +13,
Survival +12, Use the Force +16

Possessions blaster pistol, lightsaber (self-built), cybernetic prosthesis (1,
right hand), flight suit, robes, utility belt with medpac

LEIA ORGANA

As the Senator of Alderaan, Leia Organa secretly serves the Rebel Alliance,
determined to bring down the tyranny and injustice that her adopted father
(and her late mother) had fought so hard to destroy. Leia is instrumental in
every turning point of the Galactic Civil War, and her influence shapes the
government of the New Republic, particularly after she becomes the Chief
of State in the wake of Mon Mothma's retirement. Over time, Leia becomes
increasingly devoted to the Jedi tradition, until finally she begins to live up
to the legacy of the Skywalker name.
Leia Organa (Episode VI) CLG
Medium Human noble 8/soldier 2

Destiny 2; Force 5, Strong in the Force

Init +12; Senses Perception +18


--- Page 266 ---
Languages Basic, Bothan, High Galactic, Mon Calamarian, Shyriiwook,
Ubese

Defenses Ref 28 (flat-footed 26), Fort 25, Will 24
hp 77; Threshold 25

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 21), Fort 23, Will 24
hp 63; Threshold 23

Speed 6 squares

Melee unarmed +9 (1d4+6)

Ranged sporting blaster pistol +10 (3d4+5) or

Ranged sporting blaster pistol +5/+5 (3d4+5) with Double Attack
Base Atk +8; Grp +10

Atk Options Deadeye, Double Attack, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot
Special Actions Bolster Ally, Born Leader, Inspire Confidence, Rally

Abilities Str 13, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 15, Wis 14, Cha 16

Talents Bolster Ally, Born Leader, Inspire Confidence, Rally, Weapon
Specialization (pistols)

Feats Deadeye, Double Attack, Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot,
Skill Focus (Deception, Knowledge [tactics], Perception, Persuasion),
Strong in the Force, Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon Proficiency
(pistols, rifles, simple weapons)

Skills Deception +18, Gather Information +13, Knowledge
(bureaucracy) +12, Knowledge (garactic lore) +12, Knowledge
(tactics) +17, Initiative +12, Perception +17, Persuasion +18

Possessions sporting blaster pistol, datapad, utility belt with medpac,
Rebel uniform

HAN SOLO

Once an Imperial officer discharged for saving the life of a Wookiee slave,
Han Solo goes on to become one of the best pilots and smugglers in the
galaxy. One lost shipment of spice, however, leads to a debt to Jabba the
Hutt that Han can’t repay, and his shady past comes back to haunt him on
Cloud City after the Battle of Hoth. Still, his friends manage to free Han from
the clutches of the Hutt gangster, and Han leads the Rebel commando team
that destroys the shield generator on Endor.

Years later, Han and Leia are married and have children, all of whom grow
to be Jedi studying under their Uncle Luke. When the Yuuzhan Vong invade
the galaxy, Han's suffers one loss after another, beginning with the deaths
of Chewbacca and, later, his youngest son, Anakin Solo. Even after the end
of the war, Han's personal pain continues as he watches the Galactic Alliance
and his native Corellia square off... and the fear of losing his only remaining
son to the dark side begins to grow.

Han Solo (Episode VI)

Medium Human scoundrel 5/soldier 2/ace pilot 3/gunslinger 2
Destiny 2; Force 6

Init +18; Senses Perception +12

Languages Basic, Huttese, Rodese, Shyriiwook

CL 12

Speed 6 squares

Melee unarmed +10 (1d4+7)

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +14 (3d8+6)

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +12 (4d8+6) with Rapid Shot

Base Atk +9; Grp +11

Atk Options Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Sneak
Attack +1d6, Trigger Work

Special Actions Full Throttle, Quick Draw, Stellar Warrior

Abilities Str 13, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 14

HAN SOLO AND LBIA ORGANA

AX HSeiavHoS

q
»
@
@
U
q
b |



--- Page 267 ---
0)
2)
>
)
@
Uy
(
&

Ax BStidgvHo

Talents Full Throttle, Keep It Together, Sneak Attack +1d6, Spacehound,
Stellar Warrior, Trigger Work, Weapon Specialization (pistols)

Feats Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Quick Draw, Rapid Shot, Skill Focus
(Initiative, Pilot), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (pistols, heavy
weapons), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple
weapons)

Skills Deception +13, Initiative +18, Knowledge (galactic lore) +13,
Mechanics +13, Perception +12, Pilot +18

Possessions heavy blaster pistol with targeting scope, tool kit, modified
YT-1300 transport (Millennium Falcon)

SUPPORTING
CHARACTERS

The following section presents sample supporting characters from the Star
Wars feature films.

CHEWBACCA

The mighty Chewbacca fights in the Clone Wars to defend the Republic,
working closely with Jedi Master Yoda. When the Jedi are destroyed by
the traitorous clone army, Chewbacca decides he is no longer interested in
fighting for the Republic. After a brutal battle, he is captured by the Empire
and rescued by a young Imperial officer named Han Solo. Moved by Solo's
courage, Chewbacca decides that he owes Solo a life debt. He promptly
attaches himself to Han Solo and follows him everywhere, becoming Solo's
closest friend and sometimes conscience.

Chewbacca (Episode VI) CL 10

Medium Wookiee scout 6/scoundrel 4

Destiny 2; Force 5

Init +6; Senses Perception +10

Languages Basic (understand only), Huttese (understand only),
Shyriiwook

Defenses Ref 24 (flat-footed 22), Fort 27, Will 21

hp 110; Threshold 27; extraordinary recuperation

Speed 6 squares

Melee unarmed +11 (1d6+9) or

Melee unarmed +15 (1d6+14) with Powerful Charge

Ranged bowcaster +8 (3d10+5) or

Ranged bowcaster +6 (4d10+5) with Rapid Shot

Base Atk +7; Grp +11

Atk Options Careful Shot, Crush, Deadeye, Pin, Point Blank Shot, Powerful
Charge, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot

Special Actions rage 2/day

Abilities Str 19, Dex 13, Con 20, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 10

Talents Acute Senses, Extreme Effort, Jury-Rigger, Spacehound, Stellar
Warrior
Feats Careful Shot, Crush, Deadeye, Extra Rage, Martial Arts |, Pin, Point VY
Blank Shot, Powerful Charge, Precise Shot, Rapid Shot, Skill Training
(Use Computer), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons)
Skills Climb +5 (may take 10 when distracted), Endurance +10,
Mechanics +10 (may reroll when making jury-rigged repair),
Perception +10 (treat range as one category less), Persuasion +5 (may VY
reroll attempts to intimidate), Pilot +10, Use Computer +10 (may reroll
and keep better result when plotting hyperspace jump)
Possessions bowcaster, bandolier, tool kit

CHEWBACCA


--- Page 268 ---
LANDO CALRISSIAN

A gambler, smuggler, con artist, opportunist, and all-around scoundrel,
Lando Calrissian considers himself more of an entrepreneur than a criminal.
Although his capital sometimes comes from questionable sources, Lando
almost always puts it into more or less legitimate operations, with the sole
purpose of turning it into even more capital. He is nothing if not ambitious—
though sometimes his ambition gets the better of him.

Lando Calrissian (Episode VI) CL 8

Medium Human scoundrel 8

Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 1

Init +6; Senses Perception +10

Languages Basic, Shyriiwook, Sullustese

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 20), Fort 19, Will 20; Dodge, Mobility

hp 50; Threshold 19

Speed 6 squares; Running Attack

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+5)

Ranged blaster pistol +9 (3d6+4) or

Ranged blaster pistol +4/+4 (3d6+4) with Double Attack

Base Atk +6; Grp +8

Atk Options Dastardly Strike, Double Attack, Point Blank Shot

Special Actions Fool's Luck, Fortune's Favor, Gambler

Abilities Str 12, Dex 14, Con 12, Int 14, Wis 13, Cha 16

Talents Dastardly Strike, Fool's Luck, Fortune's Favor, Gambler

Feats Dodge, Double Attack, Mobility, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack,
Skill Focus (Deception), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (pistols),
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, simple weapons)

Skills Deception +17, Gather Information +12, Mechanics +11,
Perception +10, Persuasion +12, Pilot +11

Possessions blaster pistol, comlink, expensive clothes

R2Z-DZ

At first glance, R2-D2 seems an unassuming astromech droid, typical of his
series. But Artoo is unusual in that he has a unique personality quirk: cour-
age. Artoo demonstrates his bravery again and again, taking the typical R2
unit's helpfulness to an unheard-of extreme.

Although he serves faithfully, Artoo does so in the manner he feels is
best—which doesn't always coincide with the instructions given to him. In
addition to being innovative and resourceful, he is often absolutely right
about the best course of action.

R2-D2 (Episode VI) CL6
Small droid (2nd-degree) nonheroic 2/scoundrel 6

Destiny 1; Force 4

Init +3; Senses darkvision; Perception +6

Languages Basic, Binary, Huttese, Mon Calamarian, Shyriiwook

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 20), Fort 16, Will 18; Dodge, Mobility

hp 34; Threshold 16

Speed 4 squares (wheeled), 1 square (walking), 6 squares (flying)

Melee electroshock probe +10 (1d8+3 ion)

Ranged by weapon +14

Special Actions Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot

Special Actions Gimmick

Abilities Str 8, Dex 16, Con —, Int 16, Wis 10, Cha 7

Feats Dodge, Improved Defenses, Melee Defense, Mobility, Point
Blank Shot, Skill Focus (Mechanics, Use Computer), Skill Training
(Perception), Toughness, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency (simple

Skills Deception +7, Mechanics +17, Perception +9, Pilot +12, Use
Computer +15 (may reroll and keep better result when improving
access to a computer)
(limited), magnetic feet, heuristic processor, 6 tool appendages, 1 claw
appendage, diagnostics package, internal storage (2 kg)

Possessions circular saw, electroshock probe, fire extinguisher, electric arc

Immune droid traits

Base Atk +5; Grp +3

Talents Gimmick, Master Slicer, Trace
weapons)

Systems wheeled locomotion, walking locomotion, flying locomotion
welder, holorecorder, holoprojector

AM YeSiavHga

C-3P0

The gleaming golden protocol droid C-3P0 is typical of his model: outspoken,
fussy, and even a bit high-strung. But since these qualities hardly interfere
with his work, his personality quirks are mostly tolerated. Threepio is unusual
in that he was not manufactured by Cybot Galactica, like most protocol
droids. He was, in fact, assembled from spare parts by young Anakin Sky-
walker on the remote planet of Tatooine. Still, Threepio meets all the safety
and performance standards of the original manufacturer, so he has managed
to serve several masters adequately.

Me) JO SVE)

C-3PO (Episode VI) CL5

Medium droid (3rd-degree) nonheroic 1/noble 5

Destiny 1; Force 4

Init -1; Senses Perception +0

Languages Basic, Binary, Bocce, Bothan, High Galactic, Huttese, Mon
Calamarian, Shyriiwook

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 15, Will 19

hp 26; Threshold 15

Immune droid traits

Speed 6 squares (walking)


--- Page 269 ---
E

SYVE) FSO SVE)

Ax SSticdvHa

Melee unarmed +2 (1d3+1)

Ranged by weapon +2

Base Atk +3; Grp +2

Special Actions Coordinate +2

Abilities Str 8, Dex 9, Con —, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 16

Talents Coordinate (2), Educated

Feats Improved Defenses, Linguist (2), Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill
Training (Deception, Knowledge [bureaucracy], Knowledge [galactic
lore], Perception), Toughness

Skills Deception +11, Knowledge (bureaucracy) +9, Knowledge
(galactic lore) +9, Knowledge (social sciences) +9, Perception +9,
Persuasion +16

Systems walking locomotion, standard processor, translator unit (DC 5), 2
hand appendages, vocabulator

Possessions audio recorder

YODA

The wizened Jedi Master Yoda is a living legend to the Jedi order, the per-
sonification of its ideals. He is nearly 900 years old when Senator Palpatine
is elected Supreme Chancellor of the Republic. Yoda plays a significant
part in the events surrounding the start of the Clone Wars. He forges close
friendships with the Wookiees during the war and spends much of his time
away from Coruscant. He escapes the destruction and death caused by
Order 66, and when the Jedi order is destroyed, Yoda retreats into hiding
on Dagobah to await the day he will be needed to help restore balance to
the Force. To that end, Yoda trains Luke Skywalker in the ways of the Jedi
and helps prepare him to confront Darth Vader and the Emperor. This task
complete, Yoda finally succumbs to age and, like so many Jedi before him,
becomes one with the Force.

Yoda (Episode III) CL 20
Small Jedi 8/Jedi Knight 7/Jedi Master 5

Destiny 4; Force 8, Strong in the Force

Init +18; Senses Use the Force +24

Languages Basic, Cerean, Shyriiwook

Defenses Ref 37 (flat-footed 34), Fort 33, Will 38; Block, Deflect
hp 174; Threshold 33

Immune fear effects

Speed 4 squares

Melee lightsaber +25 (2d8+16) or

Melee lightsaber +24/+24 (2d8+16) with Double Attack or
Melee lightsaber +29/+29/+29 (2d8+16) with Triple Attack
Ranged by weapon +23

Base Atk +20; Grp +14

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Double Attack, Triple Attack

Special Actions Redirect Shot, serenity, Skilled Advisor

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +24): battle strike (2), farseeing,
Force disarm, Force slam (2), Force thrust, mind trick (2), move object
(2), negate energy, rebuke (3), surge (2), vital transfer

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Distant Power, Multitarget Power,
Quicken Power

Force Techniques Improved Sense Force, Force Point Recovery (2)

Abilities Str 8, Dex 16, Con 11, Int 15, Wis 21, Cha 19

Talents Ataru, Block, Deflect, Force Perception, Foresight, Multiattack
Proficiency (lightsabers x2), Redirect Shot, Severing Strike, Skilled
Advisor, Visions

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Double Attack, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3),
Running Attack, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Skill Training (Acrobatics),
Strong in the Force, Triple Attack, Weapon Finesse, Weapon Focus
(lightsabers), Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, simple weapons)

Skills Acrobatics +18, Initiative +18 (may spend a Force Point to reroll
and keep better result), Knowledge (galactic lore) +17, Knowledge
(tactics) +17, Use the Force +24 (may substitute for Perception checks)

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), cane, Jedi robes

EMPEROR PALPATINE

(DARTH Sipious)

Possessed of the boundless power of the Force and adept in the ways of
the dark side, the Emperor is one of the most dangerous and evil Humans
in galactic history. The Emperor began his career of evil so subtly that no
outward change evidenced the darkness in his heart. Those who encountered
him considered him a kindly fellow, perhaps even a bit outclassed by the pace
and magnitude of the political arena into which he had been thrust when he
became a senator. But even then he was scheming, forging alliances with
influential figures in the Senate and the great learning centers.

Ten years after he is elected Supreme Chancellor of the Senate, Palpatine
sways Count Dooku to the dark side and uses him to found the Confederacy
of Independent Systems. The ensuing conflict between the Republic and the
Separatists enables Palpatine to trick the Senate into forming the Empire
and voting him in as Emperor. Following the death of Dooku, he secures the
service of Anakin Skywalker as his new apprentice, using him as a foil against
the Jedi and the Separatists. His master stroke is the secret Order 66, with
which he orders the clone troopers, programmed to obey him, to betray and
assassinate the Jedi.

With the resources of a million worlds at his disposal and an endless
supply of political malcontents to serve as slave labor, the Emperor builds
great engines of destruction to ensure his domination of the galaxy. The
greatest of these weapons is the planet-destroying Death Star. To oversee
its construction and deployment, the Emperor turns to his new apprentice,
Darth Vader. Although the Emperor foresees the return of the Jedi Knights
in the form of Luke Skywalker, he can't foresee (or won't accept) the impact


--- Page 270 ---
that young Skywalker will have on Darth Vader—or the ultimate betrayal that
would spell the Empire's doom.

Emperor Palpatine (Episode III) CL 20

Medium Human noble 6/Jedi 1/Sith apprentice 8/Sith Lord 5

Destiny 4; Force 8; Dark Side 20

Init +16; Senses Improved Sense Surroundings; Use the Force +24

Languages Basic, Bothan, Geonosian, Gran, High Galactic, Neimoidian,
Rodese, Ryl, Sith, Zabrak

Defenses Ref 35 (flat-footed 33), Fort 34, Will 38; Block, Deflect

hp 132; Threshold 34

Immune fear effects

Speed 6 squares

Melee lightsaber +21 (2d8+10/x3) or

Melee lightsaber +20/+20 (2d8+10/x3) with Double Attack or

Melee lightsaber +15/+15/+15 (2d8+10/x3) with Triple Attack

Ranged by weapon +20

Base Atk +18; Grp +20

Atk Options Dark Scourge, Double Attack, Melee Defense, Triple Attack,
Whirlwind Attack

Special Actions Redirect Shot, temptation

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +24): dark rage, farseeing, Force
disarm, Force lightning (4), Force slam, Force thrust, move object (3),

rebuke (2), surge (3), vital transfer

Force Secrets Devastating Power, Distant Power, Multitarget Power,

Quicken Power
Force Techniques Force Point Recovery, Improved Move L
Improved Sense Force, Improved Sense Surroundings

ight Object,

Abilities Str 10, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 18, Wis 20, Cha 19
Talents Block, Connections, Dark Scourge, Dark Side Adep

, Deflect, Force

Perception, Multiattack Proficiency (lightsabers x2), Redirect Shot,

Visions, Wealth
Feats Double Attack, Force Sensitivity, Force Training (3),
Melee Defense, Skill Focus (Use the Force), Triple Attac

Linguist,
_ Triple Crit

(lightsabers), Weapon Finesse, Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers,

pistols, simple weapons), Whirlwind Attack
Skills Deception +19, Gather Information +19, Initiative +

(bureaucracy) +19, Knowledge (galactic lore) +19, Knowledge In

(social sciences) +19, Knowledge (tactics) +19, Persuas

Computer +19, Use the Force +24 (may reroll when using [dark side] |

Force powers, may substitute for Perception checks)

Possessions lightsaber (self-built), Sith robes, comlink (encrypted)

6, Knowledge

ion +19, Use

THE EMPEROR

SI1e) SO SVE)


--- Page 271 ---
Wid) 3a sv

BOBA FETT

The most feared bounty hunter of his time, Boba Fett racks up an unheard-of
number of successful bounties that earns him a reputation as a force to be
reckoned with. His name fills outlaws and criminals with dread. Boba Fett
seems bereft of conscience. It means nothing to him to accept help from
someone, then minutes later turn that person in for a bounty.

CL.15

Boba Fett (Episode IV)

Medium scout 3/soldier 5/bounty hunter 5/elite trooper 2
Destiny 3; Force 6; Dark Side 7

Init +16; Senses low-light vision; Perception +16

Languages Basic, Huttese, Mando'a

Defenses Ref 34 (flat-footed 32), Fort 33, Will 27 VY

hp 122; DR 1; Threshold 33

Speed 6 squares, fly 6 squares (jetpack); Running Attack
Melee unarmed +16 (1d6+9)

Ranged blaster carbine +18 (3d8+7) or

Ranged blaster carbine +15/+15 (3d8+7) with Double Attack or
Ranged grenade launcher +18 (4d6+/7, stun, 2-square burst) or
Ranged flamethrower +18 (3d6+7, 6-square cone) or

BoBA FETT

Ranged missile launcher +18 (6d6+7, 2-square splash) or

Ranged stun grenade +18 (4d6+7, 2-square burst) or

Ranged whipcord +18 (grab)

Base Atk +14; Grp +18

Atk Options Double Attack, Hunter's Mark, Keen Shot, Point Blank Shot,
Precise Shot

Special Actions familiar foe +2, Hunter's Target, Quick Draw

Abilities Str 15, Dex 18, Con 15, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 13

Talents Acute Senses, Armored Defense, Hunter's Mark, Hunter's Target,
Improved Armored Defense, Juggernaut, Keen Shot, Multiattack
Proficiency (rifles), Notorious

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Double Attack, Exotic Weapon
Proficiency (flamethrower), Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Precise
Shot, Quick Draw, Running Attack, Weapon Proficiency (heavy
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons)

Skills Endurance +14, Initiative +16, Knowledge (tactics) +14,
Perception +16, Persuasion +8 (may reroll and keep better result when
intimidating), Pilot +16, Stealth +11, Survival +14

Possessions Mandalorian armor (+8 armor, +2
equipment; as battle armor with helmet
package; 4 weapon attachments), blaster



--- Page 272 ---
carbine with mounted grenade launcher, 4 stun grenades,

flamethrower (5 shots), missile launcher, 4 missiles,
whipcord (treat as net), blaster gauntlet (treat as

hold-out blaster), jet pack (10 charges), utility belt with

medpac

GENERAL GRIEVOUS
General Grievous learned the art of war as a Kaleesh
warlord fighting against the Huk species. That war
ended when the Jedi Council decreed the Huks to
be the victims of Kaleesh aggression and made the
Kaleesh people pay for their actions. Angered by
the Jedi order, Grievous is further embittered when
he barely survives a shuttle crash. His broken body is
rebuilt on Geonosis, an act paid for by the InterGa-
lactic Banking Clan as a gift to their Separatist leader,
Count Dooku.

Count Dooku trains Grievous in lightsaber duel-
ing techniques, and Grievous proudly collects the
lightsabers from the Jedi he defeats. Grievous has
four metal arms and can fight with four lightsabers
at once, making him a terrifying opponent in melee
combat. He faces Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan
Kenobi during the Battle of Coruscant but manages
to elude them. He is not so fortunate when he fights
against Obi-Wan on Utapau, dying at the end of an
epic confrontation.

General Grievous CL 14

Medium Kaleesh (cyborg) soldier 8/elite trooper
3/officer 3

Destiny 2; Force 6; Dark Side 10

Init +16; Senses darkvision; Perception +14

Languages Basic, Kaleesh, Muun, Geonosian

Defenses Ref 30 (flat-footed 27), Fort 28, Will 28 VY

hp 101; DR 1; Threshold 28

Immune atmospheric and inhaled poison hazards

Weakness vulnerable to ion damage and stunning effects

Speed 8 squares, climb 4 squares
Melee lightsaber +21 (2d8+21) or
Melee lightsaber +19 (2d8+15) and
lightsaber +19 (2d8+15)
Melee lightsaber +14 (2d8+15) and
lightsaber +14 (2d8+15) and
lightsaber +14 (2d8+15) with Double Attack
or

GENERAL GRIEVOUS

Melee lightsaber +11 (2d8+15) and
lightsaber +11 (2d8+15) and
lightsaber +11 (2d8+15) with Double Attack and
lightsaber +11 (2d8+15) with Triple Attack

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +17 (3d8+7)
Base Atk +13; Grp +19
Atk Options Double Attack, Dual Weapon Mastery,
Melee Defense, Point Blank Shot, Triple Attack
Special Actions Battle Analysis, Deployment Tactics,
Outmaneuver, Tough as Nails

Abilities Str 22, Dex 19, Con 11, Int 15, Wis 10,

Cha 14

Special Qualities command cover +2, share talent

(Outmaneuver)

Talents Armored Defense, Battle Analysis,
Deployment Tactics, Greater Weapon Focus
(lightsabers), Improved Armored Defense,
Outmaneuver, Tough as Nails, Weapon
Specialization (lightsabers)

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Double
Attack (lightsabers), Dual Weapon Mastery I, Dual
Weapon Mastery II, Martial Arts |, Melee Defense,
Point Blank Shot, Triple Attack (lightsabers),
Weapon Focus (lightsabers, simple weapons),
Weapon Proficiency (lightsabers, pistols, rifles,
simple weapons)

Skills Climb +8 (may take 10 when distracted,

may reroll and keep better result), Endurance +12,

Initiative +16, Jump +13 (may take 10 when

distracted, may reroll and keep better result),
Knowledge (tactics) +14, Perception +14,
Survival +7 (may reroll and keep better result in
hot or arid environments)

Systems walking locomotion, climbing claws,

jump servos, 6 hand appendages (legs may
be used as hands), unique armor (+8 armor),

improved sensor package, darkvision
Possessions 4 lightsabers, heavy blaster pistol,
cloak

Grievous may use any type of droid system
except a processor. His cyborg chassis includes a
life support system, making him immune to atmospheric
and inhaled poison hazards.

|

A™M HSievYHD

Cyborg Hybrid—As a cyborg hybrid, General

WIE) PO SYHE)


--- Page 273 ---
ALLIES 4



--- Page 274 ---
Star Warsuniverse is home to a dizzying array of sapient species. Despite
t that Humans have been traveling the stars for tens of thousands
5, and many aliens have been doing the same for an equal amount of
ts discover new inhabited worlds all the time.
chapter presents various creatures and characters that GMs can use
tential allies or adversaries for the heroes, from rampaging rancors to
troopers. Each ally or opponent comes with ready-to-play statistics
) make the GM's job a little easier.

BEASTS
Allanimals and other nonsentient life forms have levels in the beast class (a
nonheroic class). In the Star Wars universe, beasts are usually encountered
as threats (such as acklays, rancors, and wampas) or as mounts (such as
dewbacks and tauntauns).

Beasts have an Intelligence of 1 or 2. They roll their other five ability
scores normally (see Chapter 1: Abilities). Beasts that show above average
cunning usually have a good Wisdom score.

Beasts increase only one ability score by one point every fourth level
(instead of increasing two scores by one point each). However, they gain
feats normally as they advance in level, as shown in Table 3-1: Experience
and Level-Dependent Benefits (page 37). A beast that gains an Intelligence
of 3 or higher as a result of an ability increase is eligible to multiclass (see

"i sing, below).
“Beasts do not gain talents or starting feats, do not add their beast
class level to their defense scores, and do not gain Force Points or Destiny
Points.

EXAMPLES OF BEASTS IN
STAR WARS
Acklay, dewback, nexu, rancor, reek, tauntaun, wampa.

GAME RULE INFORMATION
Beasts have the following game statistics.

Hit Points
At each level, beasts gain 1d8 hit points + their Constitution modifier.

Force Points
Beasts do not gain Force Points.

IAX HSLdvHsa



--- Page 275 ---
BASE ATTACK
BONUS

BASE ATTACK

LEVEL LEVEL BONUS

2nd +1 12th +9

4th +3 14th +10

6th +4 16th +12

8th +6 18th +13

10th +7 20th +15
Class Skills (trained in 1 + Int modifier, minimum 1): Acrobatics, Climb,

Endurance, Initiative, Jump, Perception, Stealth, Survival, Swim.

CLASS FEATURES
Beasts gain the following class features at 1st level.

Natural Armor

Many beasts have thick hides or scales that grant a natural armor bonus
to their Reflex Defense. The amount of natural armor varies from creature
to creature. A beast's natural armor bonus is never higher than its beast
class level.

Natural Weapons

A beast has one or more natural weapon attacks (see below). It applies its
Strength bonus on melee attack rolls made with natural weapons and its
Dexterity bonus on ranged attack rolls made with natural weapons. If a beast
has two or more natural eeapons, it may make attacks with all of them at
no penalty when using the full attack action.

A beast gains a bonus on damage rolls made with its natural weapons
equal to one-half its beast class level, rounded down. A beast is proficient
with its own natural weapons, but not with any other weapon group.

The most common natural weapon attacks for beasts are summarized
here:

Bite: A bite attack deals an amount of piercing damage determined by
the beast's size: Fine, 1; Diminutive, 1d2; Tiny, 143; Small, 1d4; Medium, 1d6;
Large, 1d8; Huge, 2d6; Gargantuan, 3d6; Colossal, 4d6.

Claw: A claw attack deals an amount of slashing damage determined by
the beast's size: Fine or Diminutive, 1; Tiny, 1d2; Small, 1d3; Medium, 1d4;
Large, 1d6; Huge, 1d8; Gargantuan, 2d6; Colossal, 3d6.

Gore: The creature impales opponents with a horn or antler, dealing
an amount of piercing damage determined by the beast's size: Fine, 1;
Diminutive, 1d2; Tiny, 1d3; Small, 1d4; Medium, 1d6; Large, 1d8; Huge, 2d6;
Gargantuan, 3d6; Colossal, 4d6.

ABILITY SIZE MODIFIER

BEAST SIZE MODIFIERS' TO REF DEFENSE
Sal #92 Str, +32 Con, -4 Dex -10
Gargantuan +24 Str, +24 Con, -4 Dex -5
Huge s—S—=« 16 Str, +16 Con, ~4 Dex 2
Large +8 Str, +8 Con, -2 Dex -1
‘Medium None +0
Small -2 Str, +2 Dex +1
i | Sad dex: +2
Diminutive -6 Str, +6 Dex +5
Fine 28 Str, +8 Dex +10

1 An ability score can never be lower than 1.
2 Beasts with four or more legs double their carrying capacity.

SIZE MODIFIER SIZE BONUS TO CARRYING

TO STEALTH DMGTHRESHOLD CAPACITY’ HEIGHT OR LENGTH
-20 +50 x07 amon |
-15 +20 x10 9.7 to 19.2 m
-10 +10 x5 4,9 to9.6m
-5 +5 x2 2.5 to 4.8 m
+0 ~ x1 1.3 to 2.4m
+5 - x0.75 0.7 to 1.2m
+10 = x0.5 0.4 to 0.6m
+15 _ x0.25 0.2 to 0.3 m
+20 - x0.01 0.1 mor less


--- Page 276 ---
Slam: The creature batters opponents with an appendage, dealing
an amount bludgeoning damage determined by the beast's size: Fine or
Diminutive, 1; Tiny, 1d2; Small, 1d3; Medium, 1d4; Large, 1d6; Huge, 1d8;
Gargantuan, 2d6; Colossal, 3d6.

Sting: A sting deals piercing damage and may also inject a poison (see
Poison, page 255). Sting damage is determined by the beast's size: Fine or
Diminutive, 1; Tiny, 1d2; Small, 1d3; Medium, 1d4; Large, 1d6; Huge, 1d8;
Gargantuan, 2d6; Colossal, 3d6.

Species Traits
Some beasts have adapted to living in extreme environments and gain special
bonuses and traits, as summarized below:

Airborne: May reroll Initiative checks but must keep the second result,
even if it's worse.

Aquatic: Can't drown in water and doesn't need to make Swim checks;
low-light vision (see page 257).

Arctic: May reroll Survival checks made to endure extreme cold, keeping
the better result.

Desert: May reroll Survival checks made to endure extreme heat, keeping
the better result.

Subterranean: May reroll Perception checks but must keep the second
result, even if it's worse; darkvision (see page 257).

MULTICLASSING

A beast with an Intelligence of 3 or higher can multiclass into any heroic
class (see Chapter 3: Heroic Classes). Beasts with an Intelligence of 1 or 2
cannot multiclass.

SIZE MODIFIER
A beast applies a size modifier to its Reflex Defense and Stealth checks
based on its size. A beast of Large size or bigger also gains a size

bonus to its damage threshold. Table 16-2: Beast Size Modifiers
summarizes this information.

BEAST
DESCRIPTIONS

This section contains sample beasts from the Star Wars
feature films. Each description includes statistics for a
typical member of the species.

ACKLAY
The most dangerous predator native to Geonosis is the savage acklay, a
monstrous arthropod with an armored exoskeleton and slashing foreclaws.

Acklay CL 10
Huge beast 11
Init +9; Senses Perception +10
Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 19, Will 10
hp 148; Threshold 29
Immune mild, moderate, and severe radiation
Speed 8 squares
Melee 2 claws +11* (1d8+18) and
bite +11* (2d6+18)
Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 2 squares
Base Atk +8; Grp +26
Abilities Str 27, Dex 9, Con 29, Int 2, Wis 11, Cha 11
Feats Cleave, Power Attack, Skill Training (Initiative, Perception)
Skills Climb +18, Initiative +9, Perception +10
“Includes5pointsofPowerAttack es

DEWBACK

Of all the creatures indigenous to Tatooine's vast deserts, the dewback is
the most respected. While the plodding bantha makes for shelter at the first
hint of a sandstorm, a dewback marches resolutely on without so much as
a grunt, even right through the heart of the storm.

IA BeaLavHa

SLNFPNEOGOAIOEG ONY SSIIY

ACKLAY


--- Page 277 ---
J

1A HSLavnS

>
om |
7c)
On
>
Z
Y
@)
U
x0)
@)
zZ
W
:

Dewback CL2
Large desert beast 3

Init +0; Senses Perception +0

Rancor CLT
Huge beast 12

Init +5; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9

Defenses Ref 12 (flat-footed 12), Fort 18, Will 9
hp 43; Threshold 28

Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 17), Fort 16, Will 8
hp 138; fast healing 5; Threshold 36

Speed 6 squares

Melee bite +6 (1d8+5)

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square

Base Atk +2; Grp +11

Abilities Str 19, Dex 8, Con 26, Int 1, Wis 8, Cha 3
Feats Improved Damage Threshold, Toughness
Skills Survival +5

NeExu
Native to the jungles of Indona and Cholganna, the nexu is a fierce, stealthy
predator with little fear of larger opponents, or even the weapons of sentient
beings. Hunted for sport on their native planet, nexu often turn the tables
on their would-be hunters and slash them to ribbons before they can fire
a shot.
Nexu CLS
Medium beast 6
Init +12; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10
Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 12), Fort 13, Will 12
hp 45; Threshold 13
Speed 8 squares
Melee 2 claws +8 (1d4+7) and
bite +8 (1d6+7)
Fighting Space 1 square; Reach 1 square
Base Atk +4; Grp +8
Atk Options ambush +2d6, Pin
Abilities Str 18, Dex 18, Con 17, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 12
Feats Pin, Skill Training (Initiative, Perception)
Skills Initiative +12, Perception +10, Stealth +12
Ambush—A nexu deals +2d6 points of damage with its natural weapons
against a flat-footed opponent.

RANCOR

While there are certainly larger and more vicious creatures in the galaxy, the
rancor holds a special place in the nightmares of countless sentient creatures.
Creatures of vast rage and single-minded carnage, rancors are periodically
captured by big game hunters and shipped to new worlds as exotic pets.

Speed 8 squares

Melee 2 claws +11* (1d8+20) or

Melee bite +11* (2d6+20)

Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 2 squares

Base Atk +9; Grp +27

Atk Options Cleave, Crush, Pin, Power Attack

Abilities Str 26, Dex 9, Con 23, Int 2, Wis 7, Cha 15

Special Qualities fast healing 5

Feats Cleave, Crush, Pin, Power Attack, Toughness

Skills Perception +9

Fast Healing 5—A rancor automatically regains 5 hit points every round
at the end of its turn, up to its normal maximum, until it is killed.

* Includes 6 points of Power Attack

REEK

Reeks wander the plains of Ylesia in great herds, contentedly munching on
grass and lichens. Although immensely strong, they generally reserve their
violent behavior for the mating season, when the sound of two bull reeks
fighting for dominance rumbles like thunder across the plains.

When a reek attacks, it lowers its head, charges, and attempts to gore
with its large horn. Should the initial attack miss, the reek flails its head
about blindly, hoping to chase away its prey so that it can attempt another
charge.

Reek CL 8
Huge beast 8

Init +3; Senses Perception +3

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 20, Will 9
hp 124; Threshold 30

Speed 6 squares

Melee gore +10* (2d6+16) or

Melee gore +12* (2d6+20) with Powerful Charge
Fighting Space 3x3; Reach 1 square

Base Atk +6; Grp +24

Atk Options Power Attack, Powerful Charge
Special Actions rage

Abilities Str 27, Dex 8, Con 30, Int 2, Wis 8, Cha 2
Feats Power Attack, Powerful Charge, Toughness
Skills Endurance +20



--- Page 278 ---
Rage—The first time a reek takes damage greater than its Will Defense
from a single attack, it flies into a terrible rage. While enraged, the
reek temporarily gains a +2 rage bonus on melee attack rolls and melee
damage rolls. The reek's fit of rage lasts for a number of rounds equal
to 5 + its Constitution modifier. At the end of its rage, the reek moves
-1 persistent step along the condition track (see Conditions, page 148).
The penalties imposed by this condition persist until the reek takes at
least 10 minutes to recuperate, during which time it can't engage in
any strenuous activity. A reek can be pulled out of its enraged state by
making it friendly (see the Persuasion skill, page 71).

* Includes 4 points of Power Attack

TAUNTAUN

Dirty and smelly, the reptilian tauntaun is perfectly suited to life on the
barren ice world of Hoth. The tauntaun’s thick fur and layers of fat keep its
body temperature high enough for it to operate during the day, but it must
seek shelter from the bitter cold at night.

Tauntaun Ch

Large arctic beast 2

Init +2; Senses scent; Perception +0

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 13, Will 9

hp 17; Threshold 18

Speed 8 squares

Melee claw +5 (1d6+5) or

Melee bite +5 (1d8+5)

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1 square

Base Atk +1; Grp +10

Abilities Str 18, Dex 12, Con 16, Int 2, Wis 8, Cha 6

Feats Toughness

Skills Survival +5

Scent—Tauntauns ignore concealment and cover when making Perception
checks to notice opponents within 10 squares, and they take no penalty
from poor visibility when tracking (see the Survival skill, page 73).

WAMPA

The wampa is a fearsome predator, both aggressive and subtle. Displaying
uncanny cunning, a wampa sometimes ventures into even heavily guarded
areas to slaughter and drag a victim away, leaving the survivors confused,
terrified, and ripe targets for another attack later.

Wampas are covered in dirty white fur and move with amazing stealth.
Only their claws, horns, and gleaming yellow eyes show up against the back-
drop of Hoth's endless snowfields. Most of the time, especially in a raging
storm, that simply isn't enough to betray the wampa's presence.

Wampa CL4

Large arctic beast 5

Init +2; Senses darkvision; Perception +2

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 16, Will 12

hp 52; Threshold 21

Speed 6 squares

Melee 2 claws +7* (1d6+8) and
bite +7* (1d8+8)

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 2 squares

Base Atk +3; Grp +13

Atk Options rend +2d6

Abilities Str 20, Dex 10, Con 22, Int 6, Wis 15, Cha 10

Feats Power Attack, Skill Training (Stealth)

Skills Stealth +7, Survival +9

Rend—If a wampa hits with both of its claw attacks in the same turn, it
rends its opponent for an additional 2d6 points of damage.

* Includes 1 point of Power Attack. z
v
NONHEROIC |a
CHARACTERS :
<

Nonheroic characters include everything from professional workers to petty
criminals, police officers to common thugs. They lack the inclination or train-
ing to be heroes, but they are capable in their own fields. Skilled engineers,
educated professors, and master architects are all nonheroic characters,
as is the local governor, the self-serving spice merchant, and the baseline
Imperial stormtrooper.

Nonheroic characters do not gain talents, do not add their nonheroic class
level to their defense scores, and do not gain Force Points or Destiny Points.
In addition, they only get to increase one ability score by one point every
fourth level (instead of increasing two scores by one point each). However,
they gain feats normally as they advance in level, as shown in Table 3-1:
Experience and Level-Dependent Benefits (page 37).

EXAMPLES OF NONHEROIC
CHARACTERS IN STAR WARS
Battle droids, clone troopers, ordinary civilians, Rebel troopers,
stormtroopers.

fr
c
W
()}
@
U
7
a)
Z

GAME RULE INFORMATION
Nonheroic characters have the following game statistics.

Hit Points
At each level, nonheroic characters gain 1d4 hit points + their Constitution
modifier.


--- Page 279 ---
Force Points
Nonheroic characters do not gain Force Points.

CLASS FEATURES
Nonheroic characters receive no special class features other than some
starting feats at 1st level.

Starting Feats
A nonheroic character gains three starting feats at Ist level, chosen from
the following list:

Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency (medium), Skill Focus", Skill
Training*, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons), Weapon Profi-
ciency (heavy weapons), Weapon Proficiency (pistols), Weapon Proficiency
(rifles), Weapon Proficiency (simple weapons).

* This feat may be selected more than once. Each time the feat is selected, it applies
to a different skill (see the relevant feat description in Chapter 5: Feats).

MULTICLASSING
A nonheroic character can multiclass into a heroic class. The normal multi-
classing rules apply (see Multiclass Characters, page 54).

BASE ATTACK
BONUS

BASE ATTACK

LEVEL BONUS LEVEL

2nd +1 12th +9

4th +3 14th +10

6th +4 16th +12

8th +6 18th +13

10th +7 20th +15

Class Skills (trained in 1 + Int modifier, minimum 1): Acrobatics, Climb,
Deception, Endurance, Gather Information, Initiative, Jump, Knowledge (all
skills, taken individually), Mechanics, Perception, Persuasion, Pilot, Stealth,
Survival, Swim, Treat Injury, Use Computer.

CHARACTER
ARCHETYPES

The following pregenerated characters are examples of typical allies and
opponents that you can throw into an adventure or campaign. They. rep-
resent some of the more common characters seen across the various Star
Wars eras. Add personalities and histories to these archetypal characters
as you see fit.

CREATING NON-HUMAN
CHARACTERS

The statistics provided here use the Human species as the baseline (see
Humans, page 23). If you wish to change the character's species, follow
these simple rules:

e Remove one of the character's feats. (Human characters gain a bonus
feat.)

¢ Remove one of the Human's trained skills. (Human characters gain a
bonus trained skill.)

e Add the relevant species traits for the selected species (see Chapter 2:
Species or Other Species, page 284).

THE GALACTIC EMPIRE

The Galactic Empire is a vast and highly organized government ruled over
by Emperor Palpatine. The Galactic Empire seized power at the end of the
Clone Wars following an unprecedented military build-up and the destruc-
tion of the Jedi order.

The Empire is divided into sectors, each of which is governed by a Moff
and guarded by military forces. The Empire's authority on any given world
can range from a single garrison (found mostly on backwater planets like
Tatooine) to an intense presence with a stormtrooper on every street corner
(as in the Deep Core and important Core worlds).

Stormtrooper

Stormtroopers are the elite troops of the Empire, trained to fight and die
without fear or question. Squads of stormtroopers strike terror into the
hearts of civilians throughout the galaxy, enforcing the Emperor's will with
ruthless zeal and efficiency.

Stormtroopers are a separate force from the troops of Imperial Forces
and do not answer directly to Imperial military officers. They are obedient
and devoted to the Emperor. They cannot be bribed, blackmailed, or seduced.
Any such attempt automatically fails.

After recognizing the need for troopers with special equipment and
training, the Emperor ordered the development of additional types of stor-
mtroopers, including (but not limited to) snowtroopers, sandtroopers, and
scout troopers.


--- Page 280 ---
Stormtrooper CL 1
Medium Human nonheroic 4

Dark Side 1

Init +2; Senses low-light vision; Perception +9

Languages Basic

Scout Trooper CL2
Medium Human nonheroic 6

Dark Side 1

Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10

Languages Basic

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 12, Will 10
hp 10; Threshold 12

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 14), Fort 11, Will 10
hp 21; Threshold 11

Speed 6 squares

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+1)

Ranged blaster rifle +4 (3d8) or

Ranged frag grenade +3 (4d6, 2-square burst)

Base Atk +3; Grp +4

Atk Options autofire (blaster rifle)

Special Actions Coordinated Attack

Abilities Str 12, Dex 11, Con 11, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Weapon Focus
(blaster rifles), Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons)

Skills Endurance +7, Perception +9

Possessions stormtrooper armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment), blaster rifle,
frag grenade, utility belt with medpac

Heavy Stormtrooper CL2
Medium Human nonheroic 8

Dark Side 1

Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +10

Languages Basic

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 16), Fort 12, Will 9

hp 20; Threshold 12

Speed 6 squares

Melee unarmed +8 (1d4+2)

Ranged light repeating blaster +2 (3d8) with autofire or

Ranged light repeating blaster +5 (3d8) with braced autofire or

Ranged frag grenade +6 (4d6, 2-square burst)

Base Atk +6; Grp +8

Atk Options autofire (light repeating blaster), Burst Fire, Point Blank Shot
Special Actions brace (light repeating blaster)

Abilities Str 15, Dex 11, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 9, Cha 8

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Burst Fire, Point Blank Shot, Weapon
Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles, simple
weapons)

Skills Endurance +9, Mechanics +10, Perception +10

Possessions stormtrooper armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment), light repeating
blaster, 3 explosive charges, frag grenade, utility belt with medpac

Speed 6 squares

Melee unarmed +4 (104)

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6) or
Ranged blaster rifle +5 (3d8) or

)

1 iA SStlovHsS

SLNIENEXDAI@ GNY SSHIImI”?



--- Page 281 ---
SLNSNOEDEAI@ GNY SSIwvy?y

iAx HSLavHS

Ranged frag grenade (4d6, 2-square burst)

Base Atk +4; Grp +4

Atk Options Burst Fire

Abilities Str 10, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 11, Cha 8

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot, Skill Training (Stealth),
Vehicular Combat, Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons)

Skills Perception +10, Pilot +9, Stealth +9

Possessions scout trooper armor (+4 armor; as combat jumpsuit with
helmet package), blaster pistol, blaster rifle with standard targeting
scope, frag grenade, utility belt with medpac, Aratech 74-Z military
speeder bike

Imperial Officer

Admired, respected, and feared, the officers of the Imperial Army and Imperial
Navy are drawn from prestigious families with long histories of military ser-
vice. Few are promoted up from the lower ranks. Most are inducted straight
into officer training academies, instructed in doctrine, leadership, and tactics,
and then awarded commissions. There, if they distinguish themselves, they
finally get a chance to rise through the upper echelons—but rarely do they
find occasion to dirty their hands.

Imperial Officer CL5

Medium Human nonheroic 4/noble 3/officer 1

Force 2; Dark Side 5

Init +3; Senses Perception +10

Languages Basic, Bocce, Durese, High Galactic

Defenses Ref 15 (flat-footed 15), Fort 14, Will 18

hp 33; Threshold 14

Speed 6 squares

Melee unarmed +6 (1d4+2)

Ranged blaster pistol +5 (3d6+2)

Base Atk +6; Grp +6

Special Actions Born Leader, Coordinate, Trust, Vehicular Combat

Abilities Str 10, Dex 8, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 14

Talents Born Leader, Coordinate, Trust

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Linguist, Skill Focus (Persuasion), Skill
Training (Deception, Pilot), Toughness, Vehicular Combat, Weapon
Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons)

Skills Deception +11, Knowledge (tactics) +10, Perception +10, Persuasion
+16, Pilot +8

Possessions blaster pistol, code cylinder, comlink (encrypted), officer's
uniform

REBEL ALLIANCE

The Rebel Alliance fights against the tyranny of the Empire in order to restore
justice and freedom to the galaxy. Formed by loyalists such as Mon Mothma
and Senator Bail Organa, the Rebel Alliance struggles against the Empire at
every turn. It uses guerilla warfare and undercover violence to weaken the
Imperial machine and help free the oppressed people of the galaxy. Though
the Alliance sometimes engages in direct military action against the Empire,
as seen at the Battle of Yavin or the Battle of Endor, most of the efforts of
the Alliance take place under the guise of legitimate activity. For this reason,
the Alliance has attracted not only freedom fighters but also outlaws, smug-
glers, and even pirates.

The Rebel Alliance is loosely organized into cells that can operate rela-
tively independently of Alliance command. Each cell operates on Imperial
worlds or out of hidden bases, such as the base on Hoth. Any worlds that
sympathize with the Alliance find themselves the targets of Imperial wrath.
Alliance agents are always on the run from the Empire, and Rebels that are
captured are dealt with swiftly and harshly.

Rebel Trooper

The basic Rebel Trooper is stationed on Rebel bases and aboard Alliance star-
ships throughout the galaxy, serving as the first line of defense against the
Empire's stormtroopers. They are also used as scouts and saboteurs.

Rebel Trooper CL 1

Medium Human nonheroic 3

Init +7; Senses Perception +6

Languages Basic

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 11, Will 10

hp 10; Threshold 11

Speed 6 squares

Melee unarmed +2 (1d4)

Ranged blaster pistol +4 (3d6) or

Ranged frag grenade +3 (4d6, 2-square burst)

Base Atk +2; Grp +3

Special Actions Point Blank Shot"

Abilities Str 11, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 9, Wis 10, Cha 8

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Point Blank Shot", Weapon Focus (pistols),
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons)

Skills Initiative +7, Perception +6"

Possessions blast helmet and vest (+2 armor), blaster pistol, comlink
(encrypted)

H Human bonus feat or trained skill



--- Page 282 ---
Elite Rebel Trooper CL 2

Medium Human nonheroic 6

Init +9; Senses Perception +8

Languages Basic

Defenses Ref 13 (flat-footed 12), Fort 11, Will 10

hp 21; Threshold 16

Speed 6 squares

Melee unarmed +5 (1d4+1)

Ranged blaster pistol +6 (3d6) or

Ranged frag grenade +5 (4d6, 2-square burst)

Base Atk +4; Grp +5

Special Actions Point Blank Shot"

Abilities Str 12, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 9, Wis 10,
Cha 8

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Improved
Damage Threshold, Point Blank Shot",
Weapon Focus (pistols), Weapon
Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons)

Skills Initiative +9, Perception +8"

Possessions blast helmet and vest (+2
armor), blaster pistol, 2 frag grenades,
comlink (encrypted)

H Human bonus feat or trained skill

GALACTIC
REPUBLIC
Consisting of thousands of
civilized worlds, the Galactic
Republic is the oldest gov-
erning body in history.
Senators from its con-
stituent worlds deter-
mine policy and enact
laws, ensuring that peace and prosperity
reign throughout the galaxy.

The greatest threat to the Galactic Repub-
lic is the Confederacy of Independent Systems, a coali-
tion of worlds that believes the Republic has become
corrupt. The Senate authorizes the deployment of a vast
clone army to quell the Separatist threat, leading to
the Clone Wars and ending with the destruction of the
Separatist leadership and the dissolution of the Republic
in favor of a new Empire.

Clone Trooper

To counter the threat of the Trade Federation's droid armies, the Republic
deploys an army of cloned warriors. The clones’ creators, the Kaminoans,
conceive the clones from a single genetic blueprint (that of the bounty hunter
Jango Fett), making a few alterations to ensure the troopers’ rapid maturation
and unwavering obedience. The true loyalty of the clone troopers is revealed
at the end of the Clone Wars, when Darth Sidious issues Order 66 and turns
the clones against the Jedi order.

Although identical in appearance, clone troopers have different levels of
training, which accounts for their varying levels of ability. Clone troopers
can't be bribed, blackmailed, or seduced. Any such attempt automatically
fails.

Clone Trooper CL2
Medium Human nonheroic 6
Init +9; Senses Perception +4
Languages Basic
Defenses Ref 17 (flat-footed 16), Fort 13, Will 9
hp 21; Threshold 13
Speed 6 squares
Melee by weapon +5
Ranged blaster rifle +5 (3d8+3)
Base Atk +4; Grp +5
Atk Options Careful Shot
Special Actions Point Blank
Shot
Abilities Str 12, Dex 13,
Con 12, Int 10, Wis 9,
Cha 8
Feats Armor Proficiency
(light), Careful Shot, Point
Blank Shot, Weapon Proficiency
(pistols), Weapon Proficiency
(rifles), Weapon Proficiency

(simple weapons)
Skills Initiative +9, Perception +4 Y
Possessions clone trooper armor

(+6 armor, +2 equipment),
blaster rifle, comlink

1A SBSidgvHa

>
P
ie
g
@
>
Z
@
@
U
U
0)
3

CLONE TROOPER


--- Page 283 ---
SLNSENODNEAIG GNY

Clone Trooper Commander CL5

Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 2/officer 1

Force 3; Dark Side 5

Init +4; Senses low-light vision; Perception +11

Languages Basic, High Galactic

Defenses Ref 18 (flat-footed 18), Fort 17, Will 17

hp 30; Threshold 17

Speed 6 squares

Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+1)

Ranged heavy blaster rifle +8 (3d10+1) or

Ranged frag grenade +7 (4d6+1, 2-square burst) or

Ranged ion grenade +7 (4d6+1 ion, 2-square burst)

Base Atk +7; Grp +7

Atk Options autofire (heavy blaster rifle)

Special Actions Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis, Coordinated Attack,
Vehicular Combat

Abilities Str 11, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 13, Wis 10, Cha 12

Talents Assault Tactics, Battle Analysis

Feats Armor Proficiency (light), Coordinated Attack, Point Blank Shot, Skill
Training (Perception, Pilot), Vehicular Combat, Weapon Focus (rifles),
Weapon Proficiency (pistols, rifles, simple weapons)

Skills Endurance +9, Knowledge (tactics) +10, Perception +11, Persuasion
+10, Pilot +9

Possessions clone trooper armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment), heavy blaster
rifle, frag grenade, ion grenade, comlink (encrypted, long-range
[miniaturized], holo capability), utility belt with medpac

ARC Trooper

The ARC Troopers (Advanced Recon Commandos) are elite clone units that
were personally trained by Jango Fett. Whereas most clone troopers are
trained to work as a unit, ARC Troopers function well as individuals, making
them even more formidable as foes.

ARC Trooper CL8
Medium Human nonheroic 6/soldier 3/elite trooper 3

Destiny 1; Force 4; Dark Side 2

Init +12; Senses low-light vision; Perception +13

Languages Basic, Mando'a

Defenses Ref 21 (flat-footed 20), Fort 24, Will 16 VY

hp 57; DR 1; Threshold 24 WV

Speed 6 squares

Melee unarmed +12 (1d4+5) or

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +10 (5d10+5) with Burst Fire or

Ranged heavy repeating blaster +10 (3d10+5) with autofire or
Ranged missile launcher +12 (6d6+5, 2-square splash) or

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +6 (3d8+3) and
heavy blaster pistol +6 (3d8+3) or

Ranged frag grenade +11 (4d6+3, 2-square burst) or

Ranged ion grenade +11 (4d6+3 ion, 2-square burst)

Base Atk +10; Grp +12

Atk Options autofire (heavy repeating blaster), brace (heavy repeating
blaster), Burst Fire (heavy repeating blaster)

Special Actions Point Blank Shot

Abilities Str 15, Dex 13, Con 10, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 8 Y

Talents Armored Defense, Controlled Burst, Improved Armored Defense,
Weapon Specialization (heavy weapons)

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Burst Fire, Dual Weapon Mastery
|, Martial Arts |, Point Blank Shot, Weapon Focus (heavy weapons),
Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons)

Skills Initiative +12, Perception +13, Stealth +10

Possessions ARC trooper armor (+6 armor, +2 equipment), heavy
repeating blaster, missile launcher, 4 missiles, 2 heavy blaster pistols, 2
frag grenades, 2 ion grenades, utility belt with medpac

THE FRINGE

Fringers live at the edges of society. Criminals, independents, traders, and
mercenaries of all kinds consider themselves fringers. While not all members
of the fringe are criminals (certainly, many are hard-working and honest
folk), anyone who operates far from the seat of galactic power or outside
the bounds of the law can be considered part of the fringe.

Assassin

An assassin usually maintains a cover that enables him to travel freely, yet
also explains why he's in a given location at a given time. Many assassins
hold jobs as merchants, sales representatives for interstellar corporations, or
diplomats. A truly villainous assassin has a “signature” consisting of a unique
weapon, a particular approach, or some memento left with his victims.

Assassin CL5
Medium Human scoundrel 5

Force 1; Dark Side 12

Init +10; Senses Perception +8

Languages Basic plus 2 other languages
Defenses Ref 20 (flat-footed 17), Fort 14, Will 17
hp 27; Threshold 14

Speed 6 squares

Melee vibroblade +6 (2d6+2) or

Melee vibroblade +4 (3d6+2) with Rapid Strike
Ranged blaster rifle +6 (3d8+2)

Base Atk +3; Grp +6


--- Page 284 ---
Atk Options Careful Shot", Dastardly Strike, Rapid Strike, Sneak Attack
+2d6

Special Actions Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot

Abilities Str 10, Dex 16, Con 8, Int 14, Wis 12, Cha 13

Talents Dastardly Strike, Sneak Attack +2d6

Feats Careful Shot#, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, Rapid Strike, Weapon
Finesse, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons, pistols, simple
weapons)

Skills Acrobatics +10", Deception +8, Gather Information +8, Initiative
+10, Perception +8, Persuasion +8, Stealth +10

Possessions blaster rifle with enhanced targeting scope, hold-out blaster,
vibroblade, vibrodagger, comlink (encrypted), utility belt with medpac

H Human bonus feat or trained skill

Bounty Hunter

Bounty hunters track and recover sentient beings to bring them to "justice"—
even if that's little more than a Hutt's personal vendetta. Before the Empire,
most bounty hunters were members of a galaxywide guild that worked openly,
taking contracts to hunt down criminals for various authorities. During the
Emperor's reign, the guild fragmented, leaving a large number of independent
operatives. Though they occasionally band together to tackle particularly
difficult targets, most of the time they work alone, vying against each other
to collect the largest rewards. Bounty hunters differ from assassins in that
they usually seek to capture their targets, not kill them.

Bounty Hunter CL.7

Medium Human nonheroic 4/scout 3/bounty hunter 3

Force 2; Dark Side 4

Init +13; Senses low-light vision; Perception +14

Languages Basic

Defenses Ref 23 (flat-footed 21), Fort 20, Will 18

hp 64; Threshold 20

Speed 4 squares

Melee vibrobayonet +10 (2d6+7) or

Melee vibrobayonet +10 (3d6+7) with Mighty Swing

Ranged blaster carbine +11 (3d8+3) or

Ranged blaster carbine +9 (4d8+3) with Rapid Shot or

Ranged stun grenade +9 (4d6+3 stun, 2-square burst)

Base Atk +8; Grp +11

Atk Options Hunter's Mark, Mighty Swing, Rapid Shot

Special Actions familiar foe +1, Hunter's Target, Point Blank Shot, Precise
Shot"

Abilities Str 15, Dex 16, Con 14, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 10

Talents Acute Senses, Expert Tracker, Hunter's Mark, Hunter's Target

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Mighty Swing, Point Blank
Shot, Precise Shot", Rapid Shot, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee
weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons)

Skills Initiative +13, Endurance +12", Perception +14, Survival +12 ~

Possessions Corellian powersuit (+7 armor) with helmet package, blas¥er
carbine, vibrobayonet, 2 stun grenades, utility belt with medpac,
bounty hunter's license, datapad

H Human bonus feat or trained skill

Crime Lord

Crime lords come from all strata of society. Some began their careers as
streetwise thugs, crawling up from the darkest, filthiest pits of the galaxy
to positions of power within the criminal underworld. Others are noble-born,
using their money and influence to support their fiendish syndicates.

Crime Lord CL 8

Medium Human scoundrel 4/noble 3/crime lord 1

Force 2; Dark Side 9

Init +6; Senses Perception +10

Languages Basic, High Galactic, Huttese, plus 5 other languages

Defenses Ref 22 (flat-footed 20), Fort 18, Will 23; Dodge

hp 51; Threshold 18

Speed 6 squares; Running Attack

Melee unarmed +4 (1d4+3)

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +7 (3d8+4) or

Ranged heavy blaster pistol +5 (3d8+4) and
heavy blaster pistol +5 (3d8+4)

Base Atk +5; Grp +7

Atk Options Acrobatic Strike, Dastardly Strike, Dual Weapon Mastery Il,
Sneak Attack +1d6

Special Actions Point Blank Shot, Presence

Abilities Str 8, Dex 14, Con 10, Int 17, Wis 12, Cha 15

Talents Connections, Dastardly Strike, Minion, Presence, Sneak Attack
+1d6

Feats Acrobatic Strike, Dodge, Dual Weapon Mastery |, Dual Weapon
Mastery II, Linguist, Point Blank Shot, Running Attack, Skill Focus
(Deception), Toughness", Weapon Proficiency (pistols, simple weapons)

Skills Acrobatics +11, Deception +16, Gather Information +11, Knowledge
(bureaucracy) +12, Knowledge (galactic lore) +12", Perception +10,
Persuasion +11, Stealth +11

Possessions 2 heavy blaster pistols, datapad, comlink (encrypted),
enforcers (including several thugs and a 6th-level minion), 1,000
credits

H Human bonus feat or trained skill

J

iA® USLovHS

SALNSNESA@ GNY SsImIw?W



--- Page 285 ---
Ax HaidvHo }

SLNPNOGMEOE) GNY SSI?

Dark Side Marauder

Though the Jedi are the most powerful Force-users in the galaxy, they are by
no means the only ones. Dark side marauders are Force-sensitive individuals
consumed with rage, hatred, or an insatiable hunger for personal power.

Dark Side Marauder CL4

Medium Human soldier 4

Force 1; Dark Side 14

Init +7; Senses Perception +4

Languages Basic

Defenses Ref 19 (flat-footed 19), Fort 19, Will 16

hp 50; Threshold 24

Speed 4 squares

Melee vibro-ax +7 (2d10+10) or

Melee vibro-ax +7 (3d10+10) with Mighty Swing

Ranged hold-out blaster +4 (3d4+2)

Base Atk +4; Grp +7

Atk Options Mighty Swing

Special Actions Indomitable, Tough as Nails

Force Powers Known (Use the Force +8): dark rage (2), surge

Abilities Str 16, Dex 10, Con 13, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 12

Talents Indomitable, Weapon Specialization (advanced melee weapons)

Feats Armor Proficiency (light, medium), Force Sensitivity, Force Training,
Improved Damage Threshold", Mighty Swing, Weapon Proficiency
(advanced melee weapons, pistols, rifles, simple weapons)

Skills Endurance +8", Initiative +7, Use the Force +8

Possessions battle armor (+8 armor, +2 equipment), vibro-ax, hold-out
blaster, comlink, 100 credits

H Human bonus feat or trained skill

Thug

Thugs are basic bruisers. They are street toughs aspiring to become swoop
champions, grunts working for a local crime lord, security guards, or law
enforcers prone to breaking heads and taking bribes.

Thug CL4
Medium Human nonheroic 2

Dark Side 3

Init +6; Senses +5

Languages Basic

Defenses Ref 10 (flat-footed 10), Fort 11, Will 9

hp 9; Threshold 11

Speed 6 squares

Melee vibro-ax +2 (2d10+2)

Ranged blaster pistol +1 (3d6)

Base Atk +1; Grp +2

Atk Options Cleave"

Abilities Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 8, Wis 9, Cha 10

Feats Cleave", Toughness, Weapon Proficiency (advanced melee weapons,
pistols, simple weapons)

Skills Initiative +6, Perception +5"

Possessions Blaster pistol, vibro-ax

H Human bonus feat or trained skill

OTHER SPECIES

All of the character stat blocks in this chapter use Human as the base species.
However, you can easily use these stat blocks to represent non-Human charac-
ters as well by removing the Human species traits (one bonus trained skill and
one bonus feat) and applying the new species’ traits. You may use the species
described in Chapter 2: Species or any of the species presented below.

AQUALISH

Aqualish are walrus-faced humanoids with skin ranging in color from dark green
or blue to deep russet or black. Some Aqualish subspecies have four eyes instead
of two or fins instead of hands. The Aqualish admire strength and are openly
hostile toward the weak. In fact, it is customary and accepted social behavior
among Aqualish to be pushy and belligerent upon first meeting others.

Aqualish Species Traits

e Ability Modifiers: +2 Constitution, -2 Wisdom, -2 Charisma.

e Size: Medium.

© Speed: 6 squares.

e Breathe Underwater: As amphibious creatures, Aqualish can't drown in
water.

e Expert Swimmer: An Aqualish may choose to reroll any Swim check,
but the result of the reroll must be accepted even if it is worse. In addi-
tion, an Aqualish may choose to take 10 on Swim checks even when
distracted or threatened.

¢ Bonus Feat: Toughness.

¢ Languages: Aqualish, Basic.

HuUTTS

Hutts are immense, sluglike, creatures with bulbous heads. Two catlike eyes
rise from the surface of a Hutt's face, while a lipless mouth spreads from ear
hole to ear hole. Most Hutts are vicious megalomaniacs who consider their
kind to be beyond morality as perceived by lesser beings. They have a talent
for manipulating others and enjoy exerting power over others.

Hutt Species Traits
e Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, +2 Constitution, +2 Intelligence, -6
Dexterity.


--- Page 286 ---
e Size: Large. Hutts take a -1 size penalty to their Reflex Defense, a -5
size penalty on Stealth checks, and a +5 size bonus to their damage
threshold. Their lifting and carrying limits are double those of Medium
characters.

© Speed: 2 squares.

e Force Resistance: +5 species bonus to Will Defense against any Use the
Force check.

e Supreme Stability: Hutts can't be tripped or knocked prone.

¢ Skills: A Hutt may reroll a Persuasion check, keeping the better result.

e Languages: Basic, Huttese.

NEIMOIDIANS

Neimoidians stand between 1.6 and 2 meters tall and are of slight build.
Their skin ranges from mottled green to gray, and their vaguely reptilian
faces are flat and elongated. They have red eyes, thick lips, and no noses.
Neimoidians have two primary motivations: to control their surroundings at
all times and to acquire as much wealth and power as they can. The latter
goal might seem a logical means of attaining the former, but to a Neimoidian,
the pursuit of wealth and power is an end unto itself. Such traits gave rise
to the Trade Federation, one of the most powerful and influential economic
forces in the Galactic Republic.

Neimoidian Species Traits

e Ability Modifiers: +2 Intelligence, +2 Wisdom, -2 Strength.

e Size: Medium.

e Speed: 6 squares.

® Conditional Bonus Feat: Neimoidians with Deception as a trained skill
gain Skill Focus (Deception) as a bonus feat.

e Skills: A Neimoidian may reroll a Deception check but must keep the
second result.

e Languages: Basic, Neimoidian, Pak Pak.

YUUZHAN VONG

Conquerors from beyond the galactic rim, the Yuuzhan Vong are organized,
bloodthirsty, ritually scarred warriors driven by religious fervor. They are
masters of biotechnology; their clothing, weapons, and equipment are geneti-
cally engineered life forms. They despise mechanical technology (droids in
particular) and destroy any such technology they encounter. They are also
disconnected from the Force in a way that Jedi and other Force-sensitive
beings find unsettling.

The culture of the Yuuzhan Vong is based on the domination of lesser
species. To the Yuuzhan Vong, most other species are unworthy and suit-
able only as slaves. The worthy are regarded with enough tolerance to grant
them a clean death.

Yuuzhan Vong Species Traits

Ability Modifiers: +2 Strength, -2 Wisdom.

Size: Medium.

Speed: 6 squares.

Force Immunity: Yuuzhan Vong can't take the Force Sensitivity feat,
can't make Use the Force checks, and never gain Force Points. In addi-
tion, they are immune to any Force effect that targets their Will Defense
(including Force powers and aspects of the Use the Force skill).
Technophobic: Yuuzhan Vong take a -5 penalty on attack rolls and skill
checks made when using mechanical weapons or tools.

Weapon Familiarity: Yuuzhan Vong with the Weapon Proficiency
(simple weapons) feat are considered proficient with the amphistaff.
Language: Yuuzhan Vong.

1AX HSLevHoS

SLANSNODEOG GNY SSIIW,y


--- Page 287 ---
ABVSHPSAINNY wOS SHYM BLS |

INDEX

Entries in black type are talents.

Acrobatic Recovery 40
Acute Senses 49

Adept Negotiator 39
Adept Spelleaster 107
aid another 151

aim 154

area attacks 155
armor check penalty 132
Armor Mastery 51
Armored Defense 52
Assault Tactics 221
astrogation 237

Ataru 218

attack an object 151
attacks of opportunity 155
attack roll 144
Attract Minion 210
Attune Armor 107
Attune Weapon 214
autofire 156
automatic misses 145
Barter 49

base attack bonus 36
Battle Analysis 52
Battle Meditation 40
Block 41

Bolster Ally 43

Born Leader 44
challenge level (CL) 247
Channel Aggression 213
Channel Anger 213
charge 152

Charm Beast 107

Clear Mind 40
Command Beast 107
concealment 156
conditions 148
Connections 44
Controlled Burst 212
Coordinate 44

coup de grace 154
cover 157

Cover Fire 52

Crippling Strike 213
critical hits 145
damage 145

damage reduction (DR) 158
damage threshold 146
Dark Healing 223

Dark Presence 101

Dark Scourge 223

Dark Side Adept 223
Dark Side Master 223

Dark Side Sense 40
dark side score 93
Dark Side Scourge 40
darkvision 257
Dastardly Strike 46
death 148
Debilitating Shot 216
Deceptive Shot 216
defenses 145

class bonuses 36
Deflect 41
delay 161
Demand Surrender 43
Demolitionist 52
Deployment Tactics 221
destiny 112
Devastating Attack 53
difficult terrain 159
disarm 152
Disciplined Strike 100
Disruptive 46
Distant Command 44
Djem So 218
Dogfight Gunner 207
Draw Fire 52
Educated 44
Elusive Dogfighter 207
Elusive Target 40
Embrace The Dark Side 214
Empower Weapon 214
encumbrance 140
Equilibrium 101
Evasion 50
Exotic Weapon Mastery 212
experience points (xp) 248
Expert Grappler 52
Expert Gunner 207
Expert Tracker 49
Extreme Effort 50
falling unconscious 147
Fearless Leader 44
Field Tactics 221
fight defensively 152
fighting space 159
flanking 159
Flight 107
Fool's Luck 46
Force Cloak 107
Force Cloak Mastery 107
Force Deception 223
Force Focus 101
Force Fotification 218
Force Haze 40
Force Intuition 40
Force Perception 101
Force Persuasion 40
Force Pilot 101

force points 92

Force Power Adept 214

force powers 95

Force Recovery 101

force secrets 103

force talents 100

Force Talisman 214

force techniques 101

Force Treatment 214

Foresight 101

Fortified Body 214

Fortune's Favor 46

Fringe Savant 50

full attack 154

Full Throttle 207

Gambler 46

gambling 47

Gauge Force Potential 101

Gimmick 47

grab 152

grapple 153

Greater Devastating Attack 212

Greater Force Talisman 214

Greater Penetrating Attack 212

Greater Weapon Focus 212
Lightsabers 218

Greater Weapon Specialization 212
Lightsabers 218

Gun Club 52

Harm's Way 52

hazards 252

helpless opponents 159

heroic level 36

Hidden Movement 49

hit points 146

Hunter's Mark 208

Hunter's Target 208

Hyperdriven 47

Ignite Fervor 43

Impel Ally |, 11 210

Improved Armored Defense 52

Improved Dark Healing 224

Improved Initiative 49

Improved Quick Draw 216

Improved Stealth 49

Improved Weaken Resolve 43

Indomitable 52

initiative 149

Inspire Confidence 44

Inspire Fear I, Il, II] 210

Inspire Haste 44

Inspire Zeal 44

ion damage 159

Jar'kai 218

Juggernaut 52

Juke 207

Jury-rigger 50

Juyo 218
Keen Shot 49
Keep It Together 207
Knack 46
Knockdown Shot 216
languages 22
Lightsaber Defense 41
Lightsaber Throw 41
line of sight 160
Linked Defense 107
Long Stride 50
low-light vision 257
Lucky Shot 46
Makashi 218
Master Negotiator 40
Master Slicer 47
Melee Smash 52
movement
diagonal movement 158
run 155
speed 146
squeezing 162
through occupied squares 161
Multiattack Proficiency
Heavy Weapons, Rifles 212
Lightsabers 218
Pistols 216
multiclass characters 54
natural healing 148
Niman 218
Notorious 208, 210
Nowhere to Hide 208
One for the Team 221
Outmaneuver 221
Penetrating Attack 53
Power of the Dark Side 101
Presence 43
prone targets 161
Quick Trigger 207
Rally 44
Ranged Disarm 217
reach 161
ready 162
recover 154
Redirect Shot 41
Relentless 208
Relentless Pursuit 207
Resilience 40
Resist the Dark Side 41
restricted items 118
retractable stocks 125
Revenge 101
Ruthless Negotiator 208
Second Skin 52
second wind 146
Severing Strike 218
Shared Notoreity 210

shield rating (SR) 161
Shien 218
Shift Defense |, II, II] 222
Shii-cho 219
shooting or throwing into a
melee 161
Skilled Advisor 40
skills
opposed check 58
“taking 10 or 20" 61
trained vs. untrained 57
Skirmisher 46
Sneak Attack 46
Sokan 219
Soresu 219
Spacehound 47
Spontaneous Skill 44
Sprint 50
Starship Raider 47
Stellar Warrior 47
stacking bonuses 241
stunning 162
Stunning Strike 52
Surefooted 50
surprise 149
Swift Power 101
System Hit 207
Tactical Edge 222
Telekinetic Power 100
Telekinetic Savant 100
Total Concealment 49
Tough as Nails 53
Trace 47
Trakata 219
Trigger Work 217
Trust 44
unarmed attacks 163
Unbalance Opponent 52
Uncanny Dodge |, li 49
Vaapad 219
Vehicular Evasion 207
Visions 101
Walk the Line 46
Weaken Resolve 43
Wealth 44
Weapon Specialization 53
Lightsabers 41
weapons
draw or holster 153
switch weapon mode 154
weapon batteries 170
weapon groups 119
weapon sizes 120
Wicked Strike 224
withdraw 153


--- Page 288 ---
A LONG TIME AGO IN A GALAXY FAR, FAR AWAY...

Experience the excitement and epic scope of the greatest space fantasy of all time!
Detend the Republic against the sinister plots of the Sith, join the Rebellion fm
against the oppressive might of the Empire, or save the , \ eo

New Republic from the tyranny of the Yuuzhan Vong.
The only limit to the adventure
is your imagination.

THIS BOOK INCLUDES EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO
CREATE YOUR OWN STAR WARS CHARACTERS AND CAMPAIGNS: ©

@S Complete game rules for players and Gamemasters.

@ Characters, creatures, weapons, equipment, vehicles, and droids
fram all six Star Wars movies (including Episode Ill: Revenge of the Sith)

and the extended universe. a Wary,

OOS Double-sided full-color battle map.

ii:

LAUT UATCIA GIES Sug. Retail: US $39.95 CAN

Printed in the U.S.A

film Ltd. & ™ All rights reserved. Used under authorization.



--- Page 289 ---
Star Wars Roleplaying Game Saga Edition Errata and Official
Clarifications

Updated - October 2008

Errata

p. 38 — Base Attack Bonus
Should read, “Base Attack Bonus: The character's base attack bonus. Apply this bonus to the character's
attack rolls.” Base attack bonus does not apply to damage rolls.

p. 38 — Jedi class skills
Add Jump and Mechanics to the list of skills on the Jedi Class Skills list, below Table 3-2: The Jedi.

p. 40 — Resilience Talent
Should read “You can spend a full-round action to move +2 steps up the condition track (see Conditions,
page 148)”

p. 41 — Block Talent

Add the following sentences before the last sentence of the Block talent:

“You may use the Block talent to negate melee area attacks, such as those made by the Whirlwind Attack
feat. If you succeed on the Use the Force check, you take half damage if the attack hits and no damage if the
attack misses. You may spend a Force point to use this talent to negate an attack against an adjacent
character.”

p. 41 — Deflect Talent

Before the last sentence of the first paragraph, add the following sentence: “You may spend a Force Point to
use this talent to negate an attack against an adjacent character.”

Replace the second paragraph with the following:

“You can use this talent to deflect some of the barrage of shots fired from a ranged weapon set on autofire,
or the Force lightning Force power. If you succeed on the Use the Force check, you take half damage if the
attack hits and no damage if the attack misses.”

p. 44 — Wealth Talent
Change reference to “your noble level” to “your class level”

p. 46 — Fool’s Luck Talent
Change reference to “luck bonus” to “competence bonus”

p. 47 — Hyperdriven Talent
Remove the word “scoundrel” before the phrase “class level.”

p. 51 — Soldier Defense Bonuses
Should read, "At Ist level you gain a +1 class bonus to your Reflex Defense and a +2 class bonus to your
Fortitude Defense."

p. 52 — Stunning Strike Talent
Change the phrase “if your attack roll” to “if your damage roll”

p. 59 — Table 4-1: Trained Skills by Class table
Add Jump and Mechanics to the class skills for the Jedi.

p. 62 — Table 4-2: Skills
Change the — in the Jedi column to a C for the Jump and Mechanics skills.


--- Page 290 ---
p. 62 — Acrobatics Skill

In the last sentence of the second paragraph, change, “a DC 15 Reflex save” to “a DC 15 Acrobatics check”
The first sentence of the second paragraph under the Escape Bonds header refers to “an attack action.” This
should be “a standard action.”

Under the Special section, replace the last sentence with the following: “If you are trained in Acrobatics,

you gain a +5 bonus to your Reflex Defense when fighting defensively (see Fighting Defensively, page 152).

p. 68 — Jump Skill

Add the following before the last sentence under the "Jump Down" use of the Jump skill: For every 10
points by which you beat the DC, you can subtract an additional 3 meters from the fall when determining
damage.

p. 69-70 — Mechanics Skill

First full sentence of second paragraph should read “On a result...” instead of “One a result...”

Under the Jury-Rig header, replace the 4th sentence with the following: “A jury-rigged device or vehicle
gains +2 steps on the condition track and 1d8 hit points.”

Under the Special header, add the following sentence: “Characters who are untrained in the Mechanics skill
can still use the aid another action to assist on Mechanics checks.”

p. 73 — Stealth Skill
Change the last sentence under the Conceal Item header to say, “Drawing a concealed item is a standard
action.”

p. 82 — Acrobatic Strike Feat
Reduce the bonus provided by this feat from +5 to a +2 competence bonus.

p. 82 — Burst Fire Feat

Change the Prerequisites for the feat to: Proficient with heavy weapons, proficient with weapon.

At the end of the Special paragraph, add the following text: “If you do not have a Strength of 13 or higher,
increase the penalty on attacks to —10 when using this feat with non-vehicle weapons.”

p. 85 — Force Training Feat
Under the Special section, the feat should say, “Each time you take this feat, you add to your Force suite a
number of new Force powers equal to 1 + your Wisdom modifier.”

p. 88 — Rapid Shot Feat

Remove the Strength prerequisite from the feat.

Add the following sentence to the Special section of the feat: “If you do not have a Strength of 13 or higher,
increase the penalty to attacks to ——5 when using this feat with non-vehicle weapons.”

p. 88 — Rapid Strike Feat

Remove the Dexterity prerequisite from the feat.

Add the following sentence to the Special section of the feat: “If you do not have a Dexterity of 13 or higher,
increase the penalty to attacks to ——-5 when using this feat with non-light weapons.”

p. 89 — Whirlwind Attack Feat
In the first sentence under Benefit, change the word “opponent” to “target.”

p. 93 — Using Force Points
Spending a Force Point to return a power to your Force suite is a reaction, not a swift action.

p. 96 — Using Force Powers

Change the second method under Regaining Force Powers to say the following “—If you roll a natural 20
on a Use the Force check to activate a Force power, you regain all spent Force powers at the end of your
turn.”


--- Page 291 ---
p. 96 — Force Power Descriptors

Add the following entry after the Mind-Affecting paragraph:

Telekinetic: A Force power with the [telekinetic] descriptor uses telekinesis to accomplish its ends. Many
telekinetic powers interact with the world physically in similar ways, and are covered as a group by some
talents. If a target of a [telekinetic] Force power has cover, it gains a cover bonus to its relevant Defense
score or on its opposed check to resist the power. If the target of a [telekinetic] Force power has concealment,
you take a penalty on your Use the Force check to activate the power unless you have used the Sense
Surroundings application of the Use the Force skill this turn. Use the standard bonuses and penalties for
cover and concealment provided on pages 156-157.

Add the telekinetic descriptor to the following Force powers: Force disarm, Force grip, Force slam, Force
thrust, move object.

p. 96 — Battle Strike
Change the DC 15 text to: “Gain a +1 Force bonus on your next attack roll made before the end of your next
turn and deal an additional 1d6 points of damage if the attack hits.”

p. 97 — Force Grip

Change the Target text to "One target within 12 squares and within line of sight."

Replace the DC 15 text with the following:

DC 15: If your Use the Force check equals or exceeds the target’s Fortitude Defense, the target takes 2d6
points of damage and can only take a single swift action on his next turn. Otherwise, the target takes half
damage and may act normally, and you may not maintain the power. Targets larger than Medium add a size
modifier to Fortitude Defense against this power: Colossal +50, Gargantuan +20, Huge +10, Large +5.
Replace the second sentence under Special with the following: “Maintaining the Force grip power is a
standard action, and you must make a new Use the Force check each round. If you suffer damage while
maintaining a Force grip, you must succeed on a Use the Force check (DC = 15 + damage taken) to
continue concentrating.”

p. 97 — Force Disarm
Change the Target text to "One target within 12 squares and within line of sight."

p. 97 — Force Slam
Add the following sentence before the “This is an area effect” sentence: “Targets larger than Medium add a
size modifier to Fortitude Defense against this power: Colossal +50, Gargantuan +20, Huge +10, Large +5.”

p. 98 — Force Stun

The Use the Force check should be compared to the target’s Fortitude Defense instead of Will Defense. Add
the following sentence to the end of the Make a Use the Force Check paragraph: “Targets larger than
Medium add a size modifier to Fortitude Defense against this power: Colossal +50, Gargantuan +20, Huge
+10, Large +5.”

p. 98 — Force Thrust
In the second paragraph under Make a Use the Force Check, change the first sentence to say, “The target
adds its base attack bonus and its size modifier to its...”

p. 98 — Move Object

Change the Target text to "One target within 12 squares and within line of sight." Replace the second
sentence under Special with the following: “Maintaining the move object power is a standard action, and
you must make a new Use the Force check each round. If you suffer damage while maintaining move object,
you must succeed on a Use the Force check (DC = 15 + damage taken) to continue concentrating. If you
deal damage with the move object power, you cease to be able to maintain it.”

p. 100 — Surge
The surge power should be a free action, not a swift action. Add the following sentences under Special:
“Using the surge power counts as a running start for determining a Jump DC. You may spend a Destiny


--- Page 292 ---
Point to gain an additional 4 squares of movement; when you do so, you may also use any and all movement
for the round as a part of a jump (no Jump check required).”

p. 100 — Disciplined Strike Talent
Change the phrase “has a cone effect” to “has an area effect” instead.

p. 100 — Telekinetic Power Talent

Change the text of the first sentence of the talent to say, “Whenever you roll a natural 20 on your Use the
Force check to activate a power with the /telekinetic] descriptor, you may choose to use that power again
immediately as a free action.”

p. 100 — Telekinetic Savant Talent
Change the text of this talent to say: “Once per encounter as a swift action, you may return one Force power
with the /telekinetic] descriptor to your suite without spending a Force Point.”

p. 102 — Force Point Recovery
Remove the second paragraph.

p. 113 — Spending Destiny Points
Change the third bullet point to say, “Act out of turn (thus changing your position in the initiative order)
once per encounter.”

p. 120 — Weapon Qualities

The entry for Stun Damage should read as follows:

“If the weapon has a stun setting, it is listed here. A weapon set to stun does stun damage equal to its normal
damage (see Stunning, page 162, for more information). Ranged weapons set to stun have a maximum range
of 6 squares unless noted otherwise.”

p. 122-123 — Table 8-3: Melee Weapons
All damage entries in the “Stun” column of the table should be replaced with the word “Yes” except the stun
baton, which should say “Yes (2d6).”

p. 126-127 — Table 8-4: Ranged Weapons

All damage entries in the “Stun” column of the table should be replaced with the word “Yes” except for the
stun grenade, which should say, “Yes (4d6).”

The listings for the sporting blaster pistol, the sporting blaster rifle, and the bowcaster should be given a
superscript of 4, denoting accurate weapons.

The listings for the hold-out blaster, heavy blaster pistol, blaster carbine, blaster cannon, heavy blaster rifle,
thermal detonator, net, and grenade launcher should be given a superscript of 5, denoting inaccurate
weapons.

Add the following footnotes at the bottom of the table:

4 Accurate weapon: This weapon takes no penalty when firing at targets at short range.

5 Inaccurate weapon: This weapon cannot fire at targets at long range.

p. 128 — Blaster Rifle, Sporting
In the last paragraph, change the number “50” to “100”.

p. 152 — Charge

Replace the text of the Charge action with the following:

“As a standard action you can move your speed (minimum 2 squares) in a straight line and then make a
melee attack at the end of your movement. You gain a +2 competence bonus on your attack roll and take a —
2 penalty to your Reflex Defense until the start of your next turn. You cannot charge through low objects or
squares occupied by enemies (allies do not hinder your charge), and charging through Difficult Terrain costs
twice as much per square as normal. You cannot tumble (as per the application of the Acrobatics skill)


--- Page 293 ---
during your movement as a part of a charge. After you resolve a charge attack you can take no further
actions this turn.”

p. 154 — Aim Add the following sentence to the second paragraph of the description of the Aim action:
“Aiming provides no benefit when making an area attack.”

p. 155 — Area Attacks

Replace the first sentence of the second paragraph with the following:

"When you make an area attack, you make a single attack roll; if your modified attack roll is equal to 10 or
higher, compare the result to the Reflex Defense of every target in the area."

Add the following sentence to the end of the second paragraph:

‘A natural 20 on an area attack roll automatically hits all targets within the affected area, but area attacks do
not deal double damage on a critical hit.”

p. 157 — Cover

Add the following sentence to the end of the description of Cover:

“A target with cover or improved cover takes no damage from area attacks if the attack roll is less than the
target’s Reflex Defense. For a burst or splash weapon, determine cover relative to the center of the weapon's
area of effect. For an autofire weapon, determine cover relative to the attacker.”

p. 167 — Critical Hits

Add the following sentence to the end of this entry: “When using a vehicle weapon, you cannot apply any
effect that causes an automatic natural 20 or automatic critical hit (such as spending a Destiny Point or using
the Jedi Master’s serenity class feature), unless a rule specifies that it can be used with vehicle weapons.”

p. 169 — Vehicle Damage Threshold

Replace the last sentence in this section with the following:

“Tn addition, all the vehicle’s occupants take damage equal to one-half the amount that exceeded the
vehicle’s damage threshold.”

p. 172 — Increase Vehicle Speed

Add the following sentence to the end of the entry:

“You may attempt to increase vehicle speed once per round as a free action when using the all-out
movement action.”

p. 173 — Collisions

Add the following sentence to the end of the first paragraph: “Unless the vehicle provides no cover to those
onboard, any damage dealt to passengers and crew in a collision is reduced by an amount equal to the
vehicle’s damage threshold.”

p. 186 — Droid Cost Factor

Add the following sentence to the end of the section on Cost Factor:

“Droids that are Small size or smaller treat their cost factor as being equal to 2/their cost factor for the
purposes of determining accessory weight.”

p. 191 — Synchronized Fire Circuits
Change the end of the last sentence to say, "a droid with synchronized fire circuits grants a +5 bonus instead
of a +2 bonus on the other droid's check or roll."

p. 198 — 3PO Series Protocol Droid
Change Intelligence score to 13 and Charisma to 14.

p. 199 — B1 Series Battle Droid
Under Systems replace the remote processor with a remote receiver.


--- Page 294 ---
p. 200 — B2 Series Super Battle Droid
Under Atk Options change "aid another (+4)" to "aid another (+5)".

p. 200 — Droideka Stat Block
Replace the droideka stat block with the following statistics:

Droideka Series Destroyer Droid CL 4
Large droid (4th-degree) nonheroic |

Init +8; Senses Perception +13

Languages Basic, Binary [rule]

Defenses Ref 16 (flat-footed 14), Fort 13, Will 12
hp 40; SR 20; Threshold 18

Immune droid traits [rule]

Speed 2 squares (walking), 10 squares (wheeled)
Melee unarmed +7 (1d4+3)

Ranged laser cannon +12 (3d8) or

Ranged laser cannon +10 (4d8) with Rapid Shot or
Ranged laser cannon +7 (5d8) with Burst Fire or
Ranged laser cannon +10 (3d8) and laser cannon +10 (3d8) or
Ranged laser cannon +8 (4d8) and

laser cannon +8 (4d8) with Rapid Shot or

Ranged laser cannon +5 (5d8) and
laser cannon +5 (5d8) with Burst Fire

Fighting Space 2x2; Reach 1| square

Base Atk +9; Grp +17

Atk Options autofire (laser cannons), Burst Fire, Rapid Shot [rule]
Abilities Str 16, Dex 15, Con —, Int 8, Wis 14, Cha 7

FeatsArmor Proficiency (light), Burst Fire, Rapid Shot, Dual Weapon Mastery I, Dual Weapon Mastery II,
Weapon Focus (rifles), Weapon Proficiency (heavy weapons, rifles)

Skills Perception +13, Stealth +3

Systems walking locomotion, wheeled locomotion (exclusive), remote receiver, 2 tool appendages, shield
generator (SR 20), integrated comlink, bronzium shell (+5 armor; treat as quadanium plating)

Possessions 2 laser cannons (treat as blaster rifles)
Availability Military; Cost 21,000 credits

p. 201 — IG-100 Series Bodyguard Droid
Replace Defenses line with “Ref 18 (flat-footed 17), Fort 19, Will 18.”


--- Page 295 ---
p. 206-235 — Prestige Class Requirements
All requirements that state “Minimum Heroic Level” should instead say “Minimum Level” throughout the
chapter.

p. 207 — Juke Talent

Replace the text of the Juke talent with the following:

Juke: When you fight defensively as the pilot of a vehicle (see page 171), you may negate a weapon hit on
your vehicle using the Vehicular Combat feat one additional time per round.

Prerequisites: Vehicular Evasion

p. 208 — Hunter’s Mark Talent

Replace the text with the following:

“If you aim before making a ranged attack (see Aim, page 154), you move the target character -1 step along
the condition track if the attack deals damage (see Conditions, page 148).”

p. 216 — Gunslinger Talent Tree

Add the following sentence to the end of the introduction: “The following talents may only be used with
pistols and rifles.”

Change the text of the Debilitating Shot to the following:

“If you aim before making a ranged attack (see Aim, page 154), you move the target character -1 step along
the condition track if the attack deals damage (see Conditions, page 148).”

p. 220 — Serenity Class Feature

Replace the second sentence of the class feature with the following:

“You may remain in this trance as long as you wish, and you are still aware of your surroundings; however,
you are otherwise helpless and cannot perform any other actions.”

p. 228 — Bespin
Swap the Major Export and Major Imports.

p. 234 — Rodia
Change the Moons entry from 2 to 4.

p. 255 — Falling Damage

Change the second paragraph to read as follows:

Acrobatics and Jump: If you are trained in the Acrobatics or Jump skills, you can reduce the damage you
take from a fall with a successful skill check (see skill descriptions). If the check succeeds and you take no
damage from the fall, you land on your feet. If you fall from a height of greater than 60 meters, treat the fall
as being only 60 meters for the purposes of reducing falling distance.

p. 261-262 — Anakin Skywalker (Darth Vader) Stat Block

In Senses line, Perception should be +18.

Defenses should be Reflex 40 (37 flat-footed), Fort 37, Will 34..
Replace the attack lines with the following:

Melee lightsaber +23 (2d8+17) or
Melee lightsaber +21 (3d8+17) with Rapid Strike or

Melee lightsaber +18/+18 (2d8+17) with Double Attack or
Melee lightsaber +16/+16 (3d8+17) with Double Attack and Rapid Strik

Ranged by weapon +21

Base Atk +18; Grp +21


--- Page 296 ---
Replace Vader's skills with the following:
Initiative +17, Jump +17, Mechanics +16, Perception +18, Use the Force +17 (can reroll when using /dark
side] powers, can substitute for Pilot checks)

p. 263 — Padme Stat Block
Replace “Wanted Alive” talent with “Inspire Confidence.”

p. 264 — Luke Skywalker Stat Block

Reflex Defense should be 28 (25 flat-footed).

Replace the attack lines with the following:

Melee lightsaber +14 (2d8+11)

Melee lightsaber +9/+9 (2d8+11) with Double Attack

Ranged blaster +12 (3d6+5)
Add the following line between the Abilities and Talents lines:

SQ Vehicle dodge +1
Add the Elusive Dogfighter talent to Luke’s talent list.

p. 265 — Han Solo Stat Block
Attack bonus with heavy blaster pistol should be +12 instead of +14.

p. 266 — Chewbacca Stat Block

Replace Chewbacca’s skills with the following:

Climb +10 (can take 10 when distracted), Endurance +15, Initiative +11, Mechanics +11 (can reroll when
making jury-rigged repair), Perception +10 (can reroll), Persuasion +5 (can reroll attempts to intimidate),
Pilot +11, Use Computer +11.

Remove the Extra Rage feat and add Shake It Off.

p. 267 — R2-D2 Stat Block
Attack bonus with electroshock probe should be +9 instead of +10. Ranged attack should be +8, not +14.

p. 268 — C-3PO Stat Block
C-3PO should have Intelligence 13, Wisdom 13, and Charisma 15. Reduce Deception skill bonus to +10 and
Persuasion skill bonus to +15.

p. 268 — Yoda Stat Block
Replace the Languages line with:

Languages Basic, Cerean, Shyriiwook (understand only)
Replace third line of melee attacks with:

Melee lightsaber +19/+19/+19 (2d8+16) with Triple Attack
p. 270 — Boba Fett Stat Block
Reflex Defense should be 36 (33 flat-footed).

p. 271 — General Grievous Stat Block
Reflex Defense should be 35 (31 flat-footed). Attack bonuses on final Melee line should be +9, not +11.


--- Page 297 ---
p. 278 — Nonheroic Class Skills
Add the Ride skill to the list of Class Skills for the nonheroic character, below Table 3-3.

p. 281 — Clone Trooper
Perception skill bonus should be +9 and should have the Coordinated Attack feat.

p. 282 — ARC Trooper

On the Defenses line, the text after Ref should be “23 (21 flat-footed).”
Replace the line that starts with “hp” with the following:

“hp 57; DR 1 Threshold 24; delay damage”

Add the following line below the Abilities line:

Special Qualities delay damage.

p. 283 — Bounty Hunter
Replace the bounty hunter’s skills with the following: Perception +14, Survival +12. Add the “H”
superscript after Perception.

p. 284 — Dark Side Marauder
Remove “Tough as Nails” from the Special Actions line.

Star Wars Saga Edition - Official Clarifications

Text changes and official clarifications for various items in the Saga Edition core rulebook. Unlike the errata,
these are not intended to be fundamental rules changes, but rather clarifications that make the full intent of
the rules clearer for both players and Gamemasters. These changes are formatted in the same style as the
errata in case you want to write the changes into the text, and should help make your game experience
smoother.

p. 27 — Gungan Weapon Familiarity
Change the text of Weapon Familiarity to the following: “Gungans treat the atlatl and the cesta as simple
weapons instead of exotic weapons.”

p. 32 — Wookiee Weapon Familiarity
Change the text of Weapon Familiarity to the following: “Wookiees treat bowcasters as rifles instead of
exotic weapons.”

p. 36 — Class Level vs. Character Level Sidebar
Add the following sentence to the end of the sidebar: “Ifa talent refers to your class level but does not
specify a class, it means the combined number of levels in all classes that grant access to that talent.”

p. 40 — Force Persuasion Talent
Remove the phrase “for the purposes of using this talent” from the talent’s description.

p. 40 — Force Intuition Talent
Remove the phrase “for the purposes of using this talent” from the talent’s description.

p. 41 — New Sidebar
Use the following sidebar to explain talents and abilities that rely on the target’s Dark Side Score:

Sensing the Dark Side

You must be aware that your target has a Dark Side Score of 1+ to use talents, feats, or other abilities that

depend on your target having a Dark Side Score. Witnessing a target performing an action that would earn
an increase to one’s Dark Side Score (such as using a Force power with the /dark side] descriptor) satisfies
this requirement. Gamemasters may also waive this requirement when you encounter an opponent that you


--- Page 298 ---
know to have a Dark Side Score due to previous encounters (such as having past experience with
stormtroopers or Sith Lords) or for opponents taking no particular precautions to conceal the presence of a
Dark Side Score (such as thugs, bounty hunters, crime lords, etc.).

p. 41 — Lightsaber Throw Talent
Change the first sentence of the talent to say: “You can throw a lightsaber as a standard action, treating it as
a thrown weapon (without this talent, a thrown lightsaber is considered an improvised thrown weapon).”

p. 52 — Harm’s Way Talent
Change the phrase “affects you instead” to “targets you instead”

p. 60 — Taking 10

Replace the last sentence with the following: “Rorworr needs to make a Climb check to reach the bounty
hunter, and this time he can take 10 only because of his Wookiee ability to take 10 on Climb checks while
under pressure.”

p. 72-73 — Ride Skill

After the phrase “Armor Check Penalty” add “(see text)” Add the following to the Special paragraph: “The
armor check penalty applies only when attempting to fast mount or fast dismount.”

Under the Use Mount as Cover section, change the first sentence to say, “As a reaction to an attack against
you, you can drop down and hang alongside your mount...”

p. 73 — Stealth Skill

Change the first sentence under the Pick Pocket header to say, “With a successful Stealth check as a
standard action...”

Change the first sentence under the Sleight of Hand header to say, “As a standard action, you can palm
hand-sized objects...”

p. 77 — Use the Force Skill

Add the following sentence to the end of the second paragraph under the Sense Force application of the
skill:

“You can also specify that you are attempting to sense only Force-users with a Dark Side Score of 1 or
higher; success reveals only those Force-users with dark side scores, and not any other Force-users.”

Under the Sense Surrounding application of the skill, add the phrase “until the start of your next turn” to
the end of the first sentence.

Under the Telepathy application of the skill, change the first part of the last sentence to say, “Against an
unwilling target, you must make a Use the Force check against the target’s Will Defense or the base skill DC,
whichever is higher;”

Under the Move Light Object application of the skill, add the following sentence to the end of the
paragraph: “Using an object as a projectile weapon is otherwise treated as a ranged attack for the purposes of
talents and feats that interact with ranged attacks.”

p. 83 — Cleave
Remove the sentence that says “You cannot adjust 1 square before making this extra attack.”

p. 89 — Weapon Focus
Change the prerequisite to say, “Proficient with chosen weapon.” Delete the third sentence under the
Weapon Focus header.

p. 95 — Selecting Force Powers

Remove the following sentence from the second paragraph: “For example, Force stun requires a DC 20 (or
higher) Use the Force check to activate, which means that a low-level character attempting to use the power
will fail more often than he succeeds.”


--- Page 299 ---
p. 97 — Force Disarm

Add the [telekinetic] descriptor to the end of the Force Disarm header. Change the phrase “If your disarm
attack succeeds...” to “If your disarm attempt succeeds...”

Remove the first sentence under the Special section. Change the phrase “before making your disarm attack”
to “before making your disarm attempt.”

p. 97 — Force Lightning
Change the phrase “If the attack hits...” to “If the skill check equals or exceeds the target’s Reflex
Defense...” and change the phrase “If the attack misses...” to “Otherwise...”

p. 100 — Rebuke
Change the end of the second paragraph to say, “...who suffers the effect based on the creator’s original Use
the Force check.”
Under the Special section, change the end of the first sentence to say, “..may attempt to rebuke the power as

well, expending a use of the rebuke power and using your rebuke Use the Force check result as its target
DC.”

p. 100 — Sever Force
The DC 35 line should begin with “As DC 25” instead of “As DC 35.”

p. 100 — Vital Transfer
Add the following text to the end of the last line before the Special paragraph: “You may choose to heal less
than the result of your Use the Force check allows. You may not heal yourself with this power.”

p. 101 — Force Perception Talent
Remove the phrase “for the purposes of using this talent” from the talent’s description.

p. 101 — Force Pilot Talent
Remove the phrase “for the purposes of using this talent” from the talent’s description.

p. 119 — Weapon Groups

Add the following sentences after the sentence that ends with “...considered skilled with all of the weapons
in that group”:

“Tf you are proficient with at least one weapon in a group, you qualify to take Weapon Focus (or any other
weapon-specific ability) for that group. The benefits of such abilities apply only to weapons in which you
are proficient. For example, a scoundrel with the Spacehound talent (see page 47) is proficient with all
starship weapons (all of which are heavy weapons), so he qualifies to take Weapon Focus (heavy weapons).
This grants him a +1 bonus on attacks with starship weapons, but he wouldn't get that benefit with a grenade
launcher or any other heavy weapons until becoming proficient with them. “

p. 120 — Simple Weapons

Add the following sentence to the end of the simple weapons description:

“Unarmed attacks and natural weapons are considered light simple weapons in which all characters are
proficient.”

p. 120 — Weapon Qualities

Under Rate of Fire add the following sentence to the end of the paragraph: “A weapon can only be on one
alternate setting other than its default setting (such as autofire or stun) at a time. Autofire-only weapons with
stun settings can deal stun damage in autofire mode, but still have a maximum range of 6 squares unless
noted otherwise.”

p. 128 — Bowcasters

Replace the sentence that begins with “Although the Bowcaster is an exotic weapon,” with the following
sentences: “Wookiees treat bowcasters as rifles, not exotic weapons. Bowcasters are treated as rifles for the
purposes of determining weapon range.”


--- Page 300 ---
p. 129 — Grenade, Ion
Replace the reference to taking “full damage” in the second sentence of the second paragraph with taking
“normal damage.”

p. 129 — Ion Pistol
Replace the reference to taking “full damage” in the second sentence with taking “normal damage.”

p. 137 — Cybernetic Prosthesis
In the third paragraph, replace reference to page 144 to page 141.

p. 144 — Critical Hits

Add the following sentence to the end of the Critical Hits paragraph: “Effects that negate an attack (such as
Block, Deflect, or Vehicular Combat) or cause an attack to automatically miss (such as a Destiny Point) can
also negate a critical hit.”

p. 144 — Free Actions and Reactions

Add the following sentence to the end of the Reaction paragraph: “You may only take a single reaction to
any one action or effect. A reaction is always resolved after the action that triggered it, though some
reactions (such as the negate energy Force power, or the Block and Deflect talents) can affect the outcomes
of the action that triggers a reaction.”

p. 153 — Draw or Holster a Weapon

Add the following sentence to the end of the first sentence under this header: “If you are proficient in a
weapon’s use, drawing the weapon always includes any action necessary to activate the weapon (thus, a
lightsaber can be drawn and activated as a single move action if you are proficient in the weapon).”

p. 156 — Provoking an Attack of Opportunity

Add the following sentence to the end of the Moving Out of a Threatened Square description:
“Involuntary movement, such as being the target of a Bantha Rush or the move object Force power, never
provokes an attack of opportunity.”

p. 162 — Ready

Replace the first paragraph under Ready with the following text: “Readying lets you prepare to take an
action later, after your turn is over but before your next turn has begun. You can ready as a standard action.
To do so, specify the standard, swift, or move action you will take and the circumstances under which you
will take it. Then, any time before your next turn, you may take the readied action as a reaction in response
to those circumstances (assuming they occur).”

p. 168 — Vehicle Weapon Damage
Replace the vehicle weapon damage formula with the following:
(Weapon Damage + % heroic level + miscellaneous modifiers) [ts] multiplier

p. 186 — Systems and Accessories
Add the following sentence before the last sentence of the second paragraph: “As with standard droid
models, your starting locomotion, appendages, and accessories do not count against your carrying capacity.”

p. 188 — Droid Traits

Add the following sentence to the end of the first paragraph under Nonliving:

“Droids do not gain an ability bonus to Constitution-based skill checks and may not take feats or talents with
a Constitution prerequisite.”

p. 192 Reprogramming
Add the following sentence before the last sentence of the second paragraph: “A droid can only have talents
he is eligible for based on his classes; thus, a droid with 5 levels in the soldier class could only be


--- Page 301 ---
reprogrammed with 3 talents that can be taken by soldiers (soldier levels 1, 3, and 5). A droid with 5 levels
of soldier and 3 levels of scoundrel could be reprogrammed with 3 soldier talents and 2 scoundrel talents.”

p. 214 — Force Treatment Talent
Remove the phrase “for the purposes of using this talent” from the talent’s description.

p. 223-224 — Force Deception Talent
Remove the phrase “for the purposes of using this talent” from the talent’s description.

p. 247 — Building an Encounter

In the second paragraph, remove everything following the first sentence. Under Combining Different CLs,
add the following sentence at the end of the first sentence: “The combined CL for the encounter is either this
result or the highest single CL + 2, whichever is more.” Add the following sentence to the end of the
paragraph: “Most encounters should not include a single enemy whose CL is more than 3 levels higher than
the average party level.”

p. 285 — Yuuzhan Vong Species Traits
Change the Weapon Familiarity line to say the following:
Weapon Familiarity: Yuuzhan Vong treat the amphistaff as a simple weapon instead of an exotic weapon.


